add release note for v7.6.0 (#15702)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.6.0.md

Author: preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-v760-release-notes-qiancai.vercel.app/tidb/dev/release-7.6.0

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Data migration

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |

## Deprecated features

## Improvements

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

+ TiDB

    - When a non-binary collation is set and the query condition includes `LIKE`, the optimizer generates an `IndexRangeScan` to improve the execution efficiency [#48181](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48181) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

```

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Reliability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### SQL

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### DB operations

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Observability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Data migration

> * TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication mode [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication mode [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@qiancai** <!--1460-->
```

    Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the primary BDR role, and for DDL statements at that cluster to be replicated to the downstream cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

> * TiCDC supports querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1627-->
```

>     Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC introduces a new API to support querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed. With this API, users can query a TiCDC changefeed about its synchronization status. This allows users to determine whether the upstream information received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC introduces a new API to support querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed. With this API, users can query a TiCDC changefeed about its synchronization status. This allows users to determine whether the upstream information received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system successfully.
```
```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC introduces a new API to support querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed. With this API, users can query a TiCDC changefeed about its synchronization status. This allows users to determine whether the upstream information received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md).

> * TiCDC adds support for two character delimmeters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987)

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC adds support for two character delimmeters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987) **tw@qiancai** <!--1653-->
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Limits the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction. The default value is `0.1`. |

### System tables

> - Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**

Reviewer: @dveeden PTAL

summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.6.0.
---

# TiDB 7.6.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 202x

TiDB version: 7.6.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.6.0#version-list)

7.6.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

## Feature details

### Performance

* BR 快照恢复速度最大提升 10 倍 [#33937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33937) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1647-->

    随着 TiDB 集群规模的不断扩大，在故障时快速恢复集群以减少业务中断时间变得愈发关键。`br` v7.6.0 之前的版本中， `region` 打散算法一直是性能恢复的瓶颈。然而，在 `br` v7.6.0 中，我们对 `region` 打散算法进行了优化，迅速地将恢复任务拆分成大量小任务并批量散布到所有的 TiKV 节点。通过充分利用每个 TiKV 节点的所有资源，我们成功实现了并行快速恢复，在大规模 `region` 场景下，将集群快照恢复速度提升了 10 倍。

    我们为用户提供了 `--granularity` 命令行参数，通过设置该参数可以启用新的并行恢复算法。例如：(命令行参数例子待研发提供)

    ```sql

    ```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

* The concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill (experimental) [#35637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35637) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@qiancai** <!--1365-->

>     In earlier versions of TiDB, the concurrency algorithm of the HashAgg operator does not support disk spill. When the execution plan of a SQL statement contains the concurrent HashAgg operator, all the data of that SQL statement can only be processed in memory. In such cases, TiDB needs to process a larger amount of data in memory, which might even exceed the total amount of memory. When the disk spill feature of HashAgg is triggered, TiDB can only select the non-concurrent algorithm, which does not improve performance through concurrency.

Author: ```suggestion
    In earlier versions of TiDB, the concurrency algorithm of the HashAgg operator does not support disk spill. When the execution plan of a SQL statement contains the concurrent HashAgg operator, all the data of that SQL statement can only be processed in memory. In such cases, TiDB needs to process a large amount of data in memory, which might even exceed the total amount of memory. When the disk spill feature of HashAgg is triggered, TiDB can only select the non-concurrent algorithm, which does not improve performance through concurrency.
```

>      In v7.6.0, the concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill. Under any concurrent conditions, the HashAgg operator can automatically trigger data spill based on memory usage, thus balancing performance and data throughput. Currently, as an experimental feature, TiDB introduces the `tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill` variable to control whether to enable the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. When this variable is `ON`, it means enabled. This variable will be deprecated when the feature is generally available.

Author: ```suggestion
     In v7.6.0, the concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill. Under any concurrent conditions, the HashAgg operator can automatically trigger data spill based on memory usage, thus balancing performance and data throughput. Currently, as an experimental feature, TiDB introduces the `tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill` variable to control whether to enable the concurrent HashAgg algorithm that supports disk spill. When this variable is `ON`, it means enabled. This variable will be deprecated when the feature is generally available.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v760).

* Support pushing down the following string functions to TiKV [#48170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48170) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1607-->

    * `LOWER()`
    * `UPPER()`

    For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

> * Support pushing down the following JSON functions to TiFlash  [#48350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48350) [#48986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48986) [#48994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48994) [#49345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49345) [#49392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49392) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@qiancai** <!--1608-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support pushing down the following JSON functions to TiFlash [#48350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48350) [#48986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48986) [#48994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48994) [#49345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49345) [#49392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49392) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@qiancai** <!--1608-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation]( ).

* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1460-->

    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and for DDL statements at that cluster to be replicated to the downstream cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

* TiCDC supports querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1627-->

>     Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API to query the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed. With this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API to query the downstream synchronization status of a specified replication task (changefeed). With this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md).

* TiCDC adds support for three character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1653-->

    Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC allows the CSV output protocol delimiters to specified as 1-3 characters long. With this change, users can configure TiCDC to generate file output using 2 character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or 3 character delimiters(such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls the idle timeout for transactions in a user session. When a user session is in a transactional state and remains idle for a duration exceeding the value of this variable, TiDB will terminate the session. The default value `0` means unlimited. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation.
   |
| [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls the idle timeout for transactions in a user session. When a user session is in a transactional state and remains idle for a duration exceeding the value of this variable, TiDB will terminate the session. The default value `0` means unlimited. |
```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

* 支持下推以下字符串函数到 TiKV [#48170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48170) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1607-->

    * `LOWER`
    * `UPPER`

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md)。

* 新增支持下推以下 JSON 函数到 TiFlash [#48350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48350) [#48986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48986) [#48994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48994) [#49345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49345) [#49392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49392) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@qiancai** <!--1608-->

    * `JSON_UNQUOTE`
    * `JSON_ARRAY`
    * `JSON_DEPTH`
    * `JSON_VALID`
    * `JSON_KEYS`
    * `JSON_CONTAINS_PATH`

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md)。

* 包含分区表的执行计划可以被缓存 [#issue号](链接) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@qiancai** <!--1662-->

    执行计划缓存是提升交易系统性能的有效手段。 自 7.6.0 开始， TiDB 解除了分区表的执行计划无法进入执行计划缓存的限制， 包含分区表的 SQL 语句能够从执行计划缓存中受益。 这将进一步提升分区表在 TiDB 的应用场景， 客户可以更多的利用分区技术降低数据读取的数量，提升数据库性能。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md)。

> * 建表的性能提升 10 倍 [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1408-->
> 
>     在之前的版本里，用户将上游数据库上万张表迁移到 TiDB 时， TiDB 需要消耗较长的时间来创建这些表，效率较低。在 7.6 版本引入新的 DDL 架构，可通过系统参数 tidb_ddl_v2 开启，新版本的 DDL 相比之前版本的 DDL 在批量建表的性能有 10 倍的提升，可大大减少用户建表的时间。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1408-->

    In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new DDL architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable `tidb_ddl_v2`. Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.

    For more information, see [documentation]( ).
```

* 简化执行计划绑定的语法 [#48876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48876) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1613-->

    TiDB 在新版本中简化的创建执行计划绑定的语法。 在命令中无需提供原 SQL 语句， TiDB 会根据带有 hint 的语句识别出原 SQL。 提升了创建执行计划绑定的便利性。 例如：

    ```sql
    CREATE GLOBAL BINDING
    USING
    SELECT /*+ merge_join(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
    ```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/sql-plan-management.md)。

* 支持动态调整单行记录大小限制 [#49237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49237) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1452-->

    TiDB v7.6.0 之前，事务中单行记录的大小受 TiDB 的配置文件参数 [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-从-v50-版本开始引入) 限制。如果超出该限制，TiDB 将返回 `entry too large` 错误。在这种情况下，用户需要修改 TiDB 配置文件并重启 TiDB 才能够生效。为了降低用户的管理成本，TiDB 从 v7.6.0 开始新增了系统变量 [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-从-v760-版本开始引入)，支持动态修改该配置项的值。该变量的默认值为 `0`，表示默认使用 [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-从-v50-版本开始引入) 的值。但如果设置为非 `0` 值，就会优先使用该变量作为事务中的单行记录大小的限制。这一改进旨在使用户更灵活地调整系统配置，而无需重启 TiDB 生效。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-从-v760-版本开始引入) 。

> * 增强 Bi-directional replication(BDR) 对 DDL 的同步 [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1521/1525-->
> 
>     在使用 TiCDC 对多个 TiDB 集群进行双向同步时，为了避免 DDL 循环同步，禁止了 DDL 的同步。7.6 版本引入 BDR Role 后，集群可以通过正确设置 BDR Role，使某些 DDL 正常同步。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Enhance DDL replication with Bi-Directional Replication (BDR) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1521/1525-->

   In previous versions, when using TiCDC for bi-directional replication of multiple TiDB clusters, replicatoin of DDL statements is disabled to avoid circular replication. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces the concept of BDR role. You can set up BDR roles for clusters to replicate replicable DDLs and non-replicable DDLs.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md#ddl-同步).
```

    在 v7.4.0 以前，使用[分布式并行执行框架](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v7.4/tidb-distributed-execution-framework)执行 ADD INDEX 或 IMPORT INTO 等任务时，由于 TiDB 本地存储空间有限，只能对部分数据进行局部排序后再导入到 TiKV，这导导入到 TiKV 的数据范围有较多的重叠，需要额外的资源进行处理，降低了 TiKV 的性能和稳定性。

    随着 v7.4.0 引入全局排序特性，可以将数据暂时存储在外部存储（如 S3）中进行全局排序后再导入到 TiKV 中。这一改进降低了 TiKV 对资源的额外消耗，并显著提高了 ADD INDEX 和 IMPORT INTO 等操作的性能和稳定性。该功能在 7.6 版本成为正式功能（GA）。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

* BR 默认恢复用户账号等系统表数据 [#48567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48567) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1570/1628-->

    `br` 备份恢复工具从 v5.1.0 开始引入了对 **mysql schema** 下的系统表数据的默认自动备份，但默认情况下不会恢复系统表数据。随后，在 `br` v6.2.0 版本中，我们引入了新的恢复参数 `--with-sys-table`，使用户在恢复数据的同时选择性地恢复部分系统表相关数据，提供了更多的操作灵活性。

    为了进一步简化用户的管理成本，同时为用户提供更直观的默认行为。从 `br` v7.6.0 开始，我们决定将恢复参数 `--with-sys-table` 的默认值设置为开启，并取消 `cloud_admin` 账号过滤。这意味着， `br` 默认支持在数据恢复时同时恢复部分系统表相关数据，特别是用户账号和表的统计信息数据。这一改进旨在使备份恢复操作更加直观且符合用户期望，减轻用户手动配置的负担，提升整体操作体验。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md)。

### Observability

> * 资源管控相关观测性增强 [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1668-->
> 
>     随着更多客户利用资源组对业务应用进行隔离，资源管控提供了更丰富的基于资源组的数据，协助客户对资源组的负载，以及资源组设置进行观测。确保发生问题时能够快速发现并缩小诊断范围。其中包括：
> 
>     * [慢日志](/identify-slow-queries.md) 增加资源组名称，RU消耗，以及对等待资源耗时。
>     * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) 增加资源组名称，RU消耗，以及对等待资源耗时。
>     * 增加变量[`ru_by_last_statement`]()，用来立即获取前一条 SQL 的RU消耗。
>     * 增加基于资源组的数据库指标：QPS/TPS，执行时间(P999/P99/P95)，失败次数，连接数。
> 
>     请参考[慢日志](/identify-slow-queries.md)，[Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md)，[资源管控 (Resource Control) 监控指标详解](/grafana-resource-control-dashboard.md)。

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Enhance observability related to resource control [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1668-->

    As more and more users use resource groups to isolate applications, Resource Control provides richer resource group-based data to assist you in observing resource group loads, resource group settings, and to ensure that you can quickly identify and accurately diagnose problems, including:

    * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * Add a system variable [`ru_by_last_statement`](), used to immediately get the RU consumption of the previous SQL.
    * Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, number of connections.

    For more information, see [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md), [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md), and [Key Monitoring Metrics of Resource Control](/grafana-resource-control-dashboard.md).
```

### Data migration

> * DataMigration（DM）迁移 MySQL8.0 的功能成为正式功能（GA） [#issue号](链接) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->
> 
>     之前 DM 迁移 MySQL8.0 仅为实验特性，不可用于生产环境。本次对该功能的稳定性，兼容性做了增强，可在生产环境帮助用户平滑、快速地将数据从 MySQL 8.0 迁移到 TiDB。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 become generally available (GA) [#issue号](链接) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->

    Previously, using DM to migrate data from MySQL 8.0 is an experimental feature and is not available for production environments. TiDB v7.6.0 enhances the stability and compatibility of this feature to help you smoothly and quickly migrate data from MySQL 8.0 to TiDB in production environments. In v7.6.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

    For more information, see [documentation]( ).
```

> * TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication mode [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1460-->
> 
>     Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the primary BDR role, and for DDL statements at that cluster to be replicated to the downstream cluster.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1460-->

    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the primary BDR role, and for DDL statements at that cluster to be replicated to the downstream cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).
```

---
title: TiDB 7.6.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.6.0.
---

# TiDB 7.6.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 202x

TiDB version: 7.6.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.6.0#version-list)

7.6.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance<br></td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/sql-plan-management#cross-database-binding">Cross-database SQL binding</a> {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>

>     <td>When working with hundreds or thousands of databases with the same schema, such as in SaaS data platforms that maintain separate databases for each customer running similar logic, keeping statistics current at all times can be difficult. SQL bindings can improve performance in these cases, but applying bindings to so many tables is impractical. TiDB v7.6.0 introduces cross-database SQL bindings that enable broadcasting bindings across all schema-equivalent databases.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>When managing hundreds of databases with the same schema, it is often necessary to apply SQL bindings across these schemas. For example, in SaaS or PaaS data platforms, each user typically operates separate databases with the same schema and runs similar SQL queries on them. In this case, it is impractical to bind SQL for each schema one by one. TiDB v7.6.0 introduces cross-database SQL bindings that enable matching bindings across all schema-equivalent databases.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/br-snapshot-guide#restore-cluster-snapshots">Up to 10x acceleration to snapshot restore</a> {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>A new 2-phase region scatter algorithm for preparing a snapshot restore to a cluster was introduced. In clusters with many TiKV nodes, this dramatically improves the cluster resource efficiency by more evenly distributing loading across the nodes, more effectively using per-node network bandwidth. In several real world cases, this causes a 1,000% acceleration of restore speeds.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="">Achieve up to 10 times faster for creating tables in batch</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="">Achieve up to 10 times faster for creating tables in batch (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
```

    <td>With the implementation of the new DDL architecture in v7.6.0, the performance of batch table creation has witnessed a remarkable improvement, up to 10 times faster. This substantial enhancement drastically reduces the time needed for creating numerous tables. This acceleration is particularly noteworthy in SaaS scenarios, where the prevalence of high volumes of tables, ranging from tens to hundreds of thousands, is a common challenge.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Reliability and Availability<br></td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview">Support TiProxy (Experimental)</a>  {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview">Support TiProxy (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-new-in-v760).

* Support pushing down the following string functions to TiKV [#48170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48170) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1607-->

    * `LOWER()`
    * `UPPER()`

    For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

* Support pushing down the following JSON functions to TiFlash [#48350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48350) [#48986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48986) [#48994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48994) [#49345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49345) [#49392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49392) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@qiancai** <!--1608-->

    * `JSON_UNQUOTE()`
    * `JSON_ARRAY()`
    * `JSON_DEPTH()`
    * `JSON_VALID()`
    * `JSON_KEYS()`
    * `JSON_CONTAINS_PATH()`

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

> * Improve the performance of creating tables by 10 times [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1408-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of creating tables by 10 times (experimental) [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1408-->
```

>     In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new DDL architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable `tidb_ddl_v2`. Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new DDL architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.
```

>     For more information, see [documentation]( ).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-v2.md).
```

    ```sql
    CREATE GLOBAL BINDING FOR
    USING
        SELECT /*+ merge_join(t1, t2) */ t1.id, t2.amount FROM *.t1, *.t2 WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
    ```

    In addition, cross-database binding can effectively mitigate SQL performance issues caused by uneven distribution and rapid changes in user data and workload. SaaS providers can use cross-database binding to fix execution plans validated by users with large data volumes, thereby fixing execution plans for all users. For SaaS providers, this feature provides significant convenience and experience improvements.

    Due to the system overhead (less than 1%) introduced by cross-database binding, TiDB disables this feature by default. To use cross-database binding, you need to first enable the [`tidb_opt_enable_fuzzy_binding`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_fuzzy_binding-new-in-v760) system variable.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-plan-management.mdcross-database-binding).

### Availability

> * Support the proxy component TiProxy (Experimental) [#413](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/413) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1596-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support the proxy component TiProxy (experimental) [#413](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/413) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1596-->
```

    Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB processes `LOAD DATA` in transactions in the same way as other DML statements, especially in the same way as MySQL. The `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction no longer automatically commits the current transaction or starts a new transaction. Moreover, it can be explicitly committed or rolled back. Additionally, the `LOAD DATA` statement is affected by the TiDB transaction mode setting (optimistic or pessimistic transaction). These improvements simplify the migration process from MySQL to TiDB and offer a more unified and controllable data import experience.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-data.md).

### DB operations

* `FLASHBACK CLUSTER` supports specifying a precise TSO [#48372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48372) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger/BornChanger) **tw@qiancai** <!--1615-->

>     In TiDB v7.6.0, the flashback feature is more powerful and precise. It not only supports rolling back a cluster to a specified historical timestamp but also enables you to specify a precise recovery [TSO](tso.md) using `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TSO`, thereby increasing flexibility in data recovery. For example, you can use this feature with TiCDC. After pausing data replication and conducting pre-online read-write tests in your downstream TiDB cluster, this feature allows the cluster to gracefully and quickly flashback to the paused TSO and continue to replicate data via TiCDC. This streamlines the pre-online validation process and simplifies data management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In TiDB v7.6.0, the flashback feature is more powerful and precise. It not only supports rolling back a cluster to a specified historical timestamp but also enables you to specify a precise recovery [TSO](/tso.md) using `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TSO`, thereby increasing flexibility in data recovery. For example, you can use this feature with TiCDC. After pausing data replication and conducting pre-online read-write tests in your downstream TiDB cluster, this feature allows the cluster to gracefully and quickly roll back to the paused TSO and continue to replicate data using TiCDC. This streamlines the pre-online validation process and simplifies data management.
```

    ````

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-cluster.md).

* Support automatically terminating long-running idle transactions [#48714](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/48714) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1598-->

    In scenarios where network disconnection or application failure occur, `COMMIT`/`ROLLBACK` statements might fail to be transmitted to the database. This could lead to delayed release of database locks, causing transaction lock waits and a rapid increase in database connections. Such issues are common in test environments, but can also occur occasionally in production environments and are sometimes difficult to diagnose. To avoid these issues, TiDB v7.6.0 introduces the [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) system variable, which automatically terminates long-running idle transactions. When a user session is in a transactional state and remains idle for a duration exceeding the value of this variable, TiDB will terminate the database connection of the transaction and roll back it.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-从-v760-版本开始引入).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760).
```

    Before v7.6.0, the size of a single row record in a transaction is limited by the TiDB configuration item [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-new-in-v50). If the size limit is exceeded, TiDB returns the `entry too large` error. In this case, you need to manually modify the TiDB configuration file and restart TiDB to make the modification take effect. To reduce the management overhead for users, TiDB v7.6.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760), which supports dynamically modifying the value of the `txn-entry-size-limit` configuration item. The default value of this variable is `0`, which means that TiDB uses the value of the configuration item `txn-entry-size-limit` by default. When this variable is set to a non-zero value, TiDB limits the size of a row record in transactions to the value of this variable. This improvement enhances the flexibility for users to adjust system configurations without restarting TiDB.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-从-v760-版本开始引入).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760).
```

    To further reduce the management overhead for users and provide more intuitive default behavior, starting from v7.6.0, BR enables the parameter `--with-sys-table` by default and supports restoring user data for the `cloud_admin` user. This means that BR restores some system tables during restoration by default, especially user account and table statistics data. This improvement makes backup and restore operations more intuitive and align with user expectations, thereby reducing the burden of manual configuration and improving the overall operation experience.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md).

### Observability

* Enhance observability related to resource control [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1668-->

>     As more and more users use resource groups to isolate application workloads, Resource Control provides enhanced data based on resource groups. This helps you monitor resource group workloads and settings, ensuring that you can quickly identify and accurately diagnose problems, including:
> 
>     * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
>     * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
>     * Add a system variable [`ru_by_last_statement`](), used to immediately get the RU consumption of the previous SQL.
>     * Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, number of connections.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    As more and more users use resource groups to isolate application workloads, Resource Control provides enhanced data based on resource groups. This helps you monitor resource group workloads and settings, ensuring that you can quickly identify and accurately diagnose problems, including:

    * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * In the system variable [`tidb_last_query_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_last_query_info-new-in-v4014), add consumed [RU](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) by SQL statements. 你可以利用此变量获取会话中上一条语句的资源消耗。
    * Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, number of connections.
    * Add the system table [`request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to record the history records of daily consumed resource units (RUs) of all resource groups.
```

    For more information, see [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md), [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md), and [Key Monitoring Metrics of Resource Control](/grafana-resource-control-dashboard.md).

### Data migration

> * Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 become generally available (GA) [#10405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10405) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 becomes generally available (GA) [#10405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10405) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->
```

    Previously, using DM to migrate data from MySQL 8.0 is an experimental feature and is not available for production environments. TiDB v7.6.0 enhances the stability and compatibility of this feature to help you smoothly and quickly migrate data from MySQL 8.0 to TiDB in production environments. In v7.6.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

>     For more information, see [documentation]( ).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-compatibility-catalog.md).
```

> * TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1460-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (Experimental) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1460-->
```

>     Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and for DDL statements at that cluster to be replicated to the downstream cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

* TiCDC supports querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1627-->

>     Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API to query the downstream synchronization status of a specified replication task (changefeed). With this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API  `GET /api/v2/changefeed/{changefeed_id}/synced` to query the downstream synchronization status of a specified replication task (changefeed). By using this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.
```

| [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls the idle timeout for transactions in a user session. When a user session is in a transactional state and remains idle for a duration exceeding the value of this variable, TiDB will terminate the session. The default value `0` means unlimited. |
| [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Dynamically modifies the TiDB configuration item [`performance.txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-new-in-v50). It limits the size of a single row of data in TiDB. The default value of this variable is `0`, which means that TiDB uses the value of the configuration item `txn-entry-size-limit` by default. When this variable is set to a non-zero value, `txn-entry-size-limit` is also set to the same value. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Updated | The algorithm used for compressing values in Titan, which takes value as the unit. Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default compression algorithm is `zstd`. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |
```

    Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC allows the CSV output protocol delimiters to specified as 1-3 characters long. With this change, users can configure TiCDC to generate file output using 2 character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or 3 character delimiters(such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|  [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation.

>    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added  | Controls whether [TiDB DDL V2](/ddl-v2.md) is enabled. When enabled, DDL statements will be executed using TiDB DDL V2. Set the value of this variable to `2` to enable the feature and `1` to disable it. The default value is `1`. TiDB DDL V2 has improved the DDL function. When it is enabled, the execution speed of creating tables can be increased exponentially compared with TiDB DDL V1. |
```

    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/sql-plan-management#universal-binding">Universal SQL binding</a> {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In use cases with hundreds or thousands of same-schema databases -- such as SaaS data platforms storing a database per customer with equivalent business logic -- having up-to-date stats at all times is challenging. For this, SQL bindings can be used to lock in performance. However, doing so across so many tables is infeasible. Therefore, universal SQL bindings allow for broadcasting bindings across all schema-equivalent databases.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/br-snapshot-guide#restore-cluster-snapshots">Up to 10x acceleration to snapshot restore</a> {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>A new 2-phase region scatter algorithm for preparing a snapshot restore to a cluster was introduced. In clusters with many TiKV nodes, this dramatically improves the cluster resource efficiency by more evenly distributing loading across the nodes, more effectively using per-node network bandwidth. In several real world cases, this causes a 1,000% acceleration of restore speeds.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="">Up to 10x acceleration of batch table creation</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
>     <td>With the introduction of a new DDL architecture in version 7.6, the performance of batch table creation in the new version's DDL has improved by up to 10x, significantly reducing the time required for users to create many tables. This is especially significant in SaaS scenarios, notorious for high numbers of tables (e.g. Tens to hundreds of thousands).</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="">Achieve up to 10 times faster for creating tables in batch</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
    <td>With the implementation of the new DDL architecture in v7.6.0, the performance of batch table creation has witnessed a remarkable improvement, up to 10 times faster. This substantial enhancement drastically reduces the time needed for creating numerous tables. This acceleration is particularly noteworthy in SaaS scenarios, where the prevalence of high volumes of tables, ranging from tens to hundreds of thousands, is a common challenge.</td>
```

>     <td>With the implementation of the new DDL architecture in v7.6.0, the performance of batch table creation has witnessed a remarkable improvement, up to 10 times faster. This substantial enhancement drastically reduces the time needed for creating numerous tables. This acceleration is particularly noteworthy in SaaS scenarios, where the prevalence of high volumes of tables, ranging from tens to hundreds of thousands, is a common challenge.</td>

Reviewer 3: @Frank945946 PTAL

Reviewer 5: LGTM

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Reliability and Availability<br></td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview">TiProxy support</a>  {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview">Support TiProxy (Experimental)</a>  {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
```

    <td>Full support for the TiProxy service, easily deployable via deployment tooling, to manage and maintain connections to TiDB so that they live through rolling restarts or upgrades or scaling events.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="">Data Migration (DM) officially supports MySQL 8.0</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="">Data Migration (DM) officially supports MySQL 8.0 (GA)</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
```

>     <td>In migrations scenarios from MySQL 8.0, where there are numerous tables to be migrated using DM (Data Migration), users would otherwise need to manually modify a large number of table creation statements. Starting from v7.6, you can configure alternative charsets and collations directly in via the DM tool. DM will handle these in the downstream such that the migration from MySQL 8.0 is much smoother.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>In previous migration scenarios from MySQL 8.0 with numerous tables using DM, extensive manual modification of table creation statements was required. Starting from v7.6.0, you can directly configure alternative charsets and collations in DM. DM seamlessly manages these adjustments in the downstream, ensuring a much smoother migration process from MySQL 8.0.</td>
```

>     <td>In previous migration scenarios from MySQL 8.0 with numerous tables using DM, extensive manual modification of table creation statements was required. Starting from v7.6.0, you can directly configure alternative charsets and collations in DM. DM seamlessly manages these adjustments in the downstream, ensuring a much smoother migration process from MySQL 8.0.</td>

Reviewer 3: @Frank945946 PTAL

Reviewer 5: Previously, DM migration for MySQL 8.0 was only an experimental feature and not suitable for production environments. TiDB v7.6.0 has improved the stability and compatibility of this feature, allowing you to smoothly and rapidly migrate data from MySQL 8.0 to TiDB in a production environment. 
@samhld The mention of 'Starting from v7.6.0, you can directly configure alternative charsets and collations in DM' has been removed as this feature has been postponed to the next version.

>     <td>In previous migration scenarios from MySQL 8.0 with numerous tables using DM, extensive manual modification of table creation statements was required. Starting from v7.6.0, you can directly configure alternative charsets and collations in DM. DM seamlessly manages these adjustments in the downstream, ensuring a much smoother migration process from MySQL 8.0.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Previously, using DM to migrate data from MySQL 8.0 is an experimental feature and is not available for production environments. TiDB v7.6.0 enhances the stability and compatibility of this feature to help you smoothly and quickly migrate data from MySQL 8.0 to TiDB in production environments. In v7.6.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).</td>
```

  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Performance

* BR 快照恢复速度最大提升 10 倍 [#33937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33937) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1647-->

    随着 TiDB 集群规模的不断扩大，在故障时快速恢复集群以减少业务中断时间变得愈发关键。`br` v7.6.0 之前的版本中， `region` 打散算法一直是性能恢复的瓶颈。然而，在 `br` v7.6.0 中，我们对 `region` 打散算法进行了优化，迅速地将恢复任务拆分成大量小任务并批量散布到所有的 TiKV 节点。通过充分利用每个 TiKV 节点的所有资源，我们成功实现了并行快速恢复，在大规模 `region` 场景下，将集群快照恢复速度提升了 10 倍。

    我们为用户提供了 `--granularity` 命令行参数，通过设置该参数可以启用新的并行恢复算法。例如：(命令行参数例子待研发提供)

    ```sql

    ```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

* The concurrent HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill (experimental) [#35637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35637) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@qiancai** <!--1365-->

>     In earlier versions of TiDB, the concurrency algorithm of the HashAgg operator does not support disk spill. When the execution plan of a SQL statement contains the concurrent HashAgg operator, all the data of that SQL statement can only be processed in memory. In such cases, TiDB needs to process a large amount of data in memory, which might even exceed the total amount of memory. When the disk spill feature of HashAgg is triggered, TiDB can only select the non-concurrent algorithm, which does not improve performance through concurrency.

Author: ```suggestion
    In earlier versions of TiDB, the concurrency algorithm of the HashAgg operator does not support disk spill. If the execution plan of a SQL statement contains the concurrent HashAgg operator, all the data of that SQL statement can only be processed in memory. In such cases, TiDB needs to process a large amount of data in memory. If the data size exceeds the memory limit, TiDB can only choose the non-concurrent algorithm, which does not improve performance by concurrency.
```

    * `JSON_UNQUOTE()`
    * `JSON_ARRAY()`
    * `JSON_DEPTH()`
    * `JSON_VALID()`
    * `JSON_KEYS()`
    * `JSON_CONTAINS_PATH()`

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Improve the performance of creating tables by 10 times [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1408-->

    In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new DDL architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable `tidb_ddl_v2`. Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.

    For more information, see [documentation]( ).

> * 优化器增强对多值索引的支持 [#47759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47759) [#46539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46539) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1405/1584-->
> 
>     TiDB 自 v6.6.0 开始引入[多值索引](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#多值索引)，提升对 JSON 数据类型的检索性能。在 v7.6.0，优化器增强了对多值索引的支持能力，在复杂使用场景中，能够正确识别和利用多值索引对查询进行优化。
> 
>     * 多值索引上的统计信息会被收集，并应用于优化器估算，当一条 SQL 可能选择到数个多值索引时，能够识别开销更小的索引。
>     * 当出现用 OR 连接的多个 "member of" 条件时，优化器能够为每个 DNF Item（member of 条件） 匹配一个有效的 Index Partial Path 路径，然后将多条路径以 Union 的方式综合起来组成 `Index Merge` 来做更高效的条件过滤和数据读取。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#多值索引)。

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The optimizer enhances support for multi-valued indexes [#47759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47759) [#46539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46539) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1405/1584-->

    Starting from v6.6.0, TiDB introduced [multi-value indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes) to improve query performance for JSON data types. In v7.6.0, the optimizer enhances its support for multi-valued indexes and can correctly identify and utilize them to optimize queries in complex scenarios.

    * Statistics on multi-valued indexes are collected and applied by the optimizer for estimation. When a SQL statement might select multiple multi-valued indexes, the optimizer can identify the index with lower cost.
    * When there are multiple `member of` conditions connected by `OR`, the optimizer is able to match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine multiple paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This allows more efficient condition filtering and data querying.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes).
```

### Reliability

* 跨数据库绑定执行计划 [#48875](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48875) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1613-->

    我们看到越来越多的用户运行 TiDB 支撑其 SaaS 平台。SaaS 平台的一种普遍的建模方式，是把平台上每个租户的数据存入不同的“数据库”，而业务逻辑完全相同。这样我们能看到上百个数据库拥有相同的表和索引定义，运行类似的 SQL 语句。在这种场景下，当我们要对一条 SQL 语句的执行计划进行绑定(SQL Binding)，这条绑定通常对运行在其他数据库的 SQL 也有帮助。

    针对这种应用场景，TiDB 引入了 "通用绑定" (Universal SQL Binding) 进行跨数据库绑定。 用一个执行计划绑定匹配模式相同的 SQL，即使他们运行在不同数据库上。比如，当我们创建了下面绑定，无论 `t1` 和 `t2` 位于哪个数据库，TiDB 都会尝试用此绑定的规则来生成执行计划，而不需要为每个数据库上的 SQL 单独创建。

    ```sql
    CREATE GLOBAL UNIVERSAL BINDING for
        SELECT * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id = t2.id
    USING
        SELECT /*+ merge_join(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
    ```

    "通用绑定" 还能够有效缓解 Saas 场景中一个常见问题。SaaS 客户的数据及负载可能因为客户业务本身的需要而剧烈变化，通常 SaaS 服务商无法预测。在这个场景下，由于统计信息无法及时更新，数据量由小及大的快速变化经常会引发 SQL 性能问题。为解决这个问题，SaaS 服务商可以用 "通用绑定" 固定大数据量客户已经验证过的执行计划，所有客户的执行计划都会被固定。 针对 SaaS 平台，这一功能的引入为客户带来了显著的便利和体验提升。

    由于 "通用绑定" 会引入一个很小的系统开销（小于1%）， 默认将其关闭。 有需要的用户通过设置变量 [`tidb_opt_enable_universal_binding`]() 为 `YES` 开启。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/sql-plan-management.md)。

### Availability

> * 支持代理组件 TiProxy （实验特性） [#413](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/413) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1596-->
> 
>     TiProxy 是 TiDB 的官方代理组件，放置在客户端和 TiDB server 之间，为 TiDB 提供负载均衡、连接保持功能，让 TiDB 集群的负载更加均衡，以及维护操作时不影响用户对数据库的连接访问。
> 
>     * 在 TiDB 集群进行滚动重启、滚动升级、缩容等维护操作时，TiDB server 会发生变动，客户端对发生变动的 TiDB server 的连接将被中断。TiProxy 可以在这些维护操作过程中，平滑的将连接迁移至其他 TiDB server，从而让客户端不受到影响。
>     * 所有客户端对 TiDB server 的连接都无法动态迁移至其他 TiDB server。当多个 TiDB server 的负载不均衡时，可能出现整体集群资源充足，但是个别 TiDB server 资源耗尽导致延迟大幅度增加的情况。TiProxy 提供连接动态迁移功能，在客户端无感的前提下，将连接从一个 TiDB server 迁移至其他 TiDB server，从而实现 TiDB 集群的负载均衡。
> 
>     TiProxy 被集成至 TiUP、TiOperator、Dashboard 等 TiDB 的基本组件中，可以方便的进行配置、部署、运维。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md)。

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Support the proxy component TiProxy (Experimental) [#413](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/413) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1596-->

    TiProxy is the official proxy component of TiDB, located between the client and TiDB server. It provides load balancing and connection persistence functions for TiDB, making the workload of the TiDB cluster more balanced and not affecting user access to the database during maintenance operations.

    - During maintenance operations such as rolling restarts, rolling upgrades, and scaling-in in a TiDB cluster, changes occur in the TiDB servers which result in interruptions in connections between clients and the TiDB servers. By using TiProxy, connections can be smoothly migrated to other TiDB servers during these maintenance operations so that clients are not affected.
     - Client connections to a TiDB server cannot be dynamically migrated to other TiDB servers. When the workload of multiple TiDB servers is unbalanced, it might result in a situation where the overall cluster resources are sufficient, but certain TiDB servers experience resource exhaustion leading to a significant increase in latency. To address this issue, TiProxy provides connection dynamic migration, which allows connections to be migrated from one TiDB server to another without any impact on the clients, thereby achieving load balancing for the TiDB cluster.

    TiProxy has been integrated into TiUP, TiDB Operator, and TiDB Dashboard, making it easy to configure, deploy and maintain.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).
```

>     - During maintenance operations such as rolling restarts, rolling upgrades, and scaling-in in a TiDB cluster, changes occur in the TiDB servers which result in interruptions in connections between clients and the TiDB servers. By using TiProxy, connections can be smoothly migrated to other TiDB servers during these maintenance operations so that clients are not affected.
>      - Client connections to a TiDB server cannot be dynamically migrated to other TiDB servers. When the workload of multiple TiDB servers is unbalanced, it might result in a situation where the overall cluster resources are sufficient, but certain TiDB servers experience resource exhaustion leading to a significant increase in latency. To address this issue, TiProxy provides connection dynamic migration, which allows connections to be migrated from one TiDB server to another without any impact on the clients, thereby achieving load balancing for the TiDB cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - During maintenance operations such as rolling restarts, rolling upgrades, and scaling-in in a TiDB cluster, changes occur in the TiDB servers which result in interruptions in connections between clients and the TiDB servers. By using TiProxy, connections can be smoothly migrated to other TiDB servers during these maintenance operations so that clients are not affected.
    - Client connections to a TiDB server cannot be dynamically migrated to other TiDB servers. When the workload of multiple TiDB servers is unbalanced, it might result in a situation where the overall cluster resources are sufficient, but certain TiDB servers experience resource exhaustion leading to a significant increase in latency. To address this issue, TiProxy provides connection dynamic migration, which allows connections to be migrated from one TiDB server to another without any impact on the clients, thereby achieving load balancing for the TiDB cluster.
```

* 简化执行计划绑定的语法 [#48876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48876) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1613-->

    TiDB 在新版本中简化的创建执行计划绑定的语法。 在命令中无需提供原 SQL 语句， TiDB 会根据带有 hint 的语句识别出原 SQL。 提升了创建执行计划绑定的便利性。 例如：

    ```sql
    CREATE GLOBAL BINDING
    USING
    SELECT /*+ merge_join(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
    ```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/sql-plan-management.md)。

* 支持动态调整单行记录大小限制 [#49237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49237) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1452-->

    TiDB v7.6.0 之前，事务中单行记录的大小受 TiDB 的配置文件参数 [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-从-v50-版本开始引入) 限制。如果超出该限制，TiDB 将返回 `entry too large` 错误。在这种情况下，用户需要修改 TiDB 配置文件并重启 TiDB 才能够生效。为了降低用户的管理成本，TiDB 从 v7.6.0 开始新增了系统变量 [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-从-v760-版本开始引入)，支持动态修改该配置项的值。该变量的默认值为 `0`，表示默认使用 [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-从-v50-版本开始引入) 的值。但如果设置为非 `0` 值，就会优先使用该变量作为事务中的单行记录大小的限制。这一改进旨在使用户更灵活地调整系统配置，而无需重启 TiDB 生效。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-从-v760-版本开始引入) 。

> * 全局排序功能成为正式功能（GA)，提升 `Add Index` 和 `Import Into` 的性能和稳定性 [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1580/1579-->
> 
>     在 v7.4.0 以前，使用[分布式并行执行框架](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v7.4/tidb-distributed-execution-framework)执行 ADD INDEX 或 IMPORT INTO 等任务时，由于 TiDB 本地存储空间有限，只能对部分数据进行局部排序后再导入到 TiKV，这导导入到 TiKV 的数据范围有较多的重叠，需要额外的资源进行处理，降低了 TiKV 的性能和稳定性。
> 
>     随着 v7.4.0 引入全局排序特性，可以将数据暂时存储在外部存储（如 S3）中进行全局排序后再导入到 TiKV 中。这一改进降低了 TiKV 对资源的额外消耗，并显著提高了 ADD INDEX 和 IMPORT INTO 等操作的性能和稳定性。该功能在 7.6 版本成为正式功能（GA）。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The global sort feature becomes generally available (GA), improving the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `ADD INDEX` [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1580/1579-->

    Prior to v7.4.0, when executing tasks such as `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` using the [distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md), due to limited local storage space in TiDB, only a portion of the data could be sorted locally before importing it into TiKV. The data imported into TiKV had a significant overlap range and required additional resources for processing, which reduced the performance and stability of TiKV.

    With the introduction of the global sort feature in v7.4.0, data can be temporarily stored in external storage (such as S3) for global sorting before being imported into TiKV. This improvement reduces resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`. This feature becomes GA in v7.6.0.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).
```

> * The global sort feature becomes generally available (GA), improving the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `ADD INDEX` [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1580/1579-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The global sort feature becomes generally available (GA), improving the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1580/1579-->
```

>     Prior to v7.4.0, when executing tasks such as `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` using the [distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md), due to limited local storage space in TiDB, only a portion of the data could be sorted locally before importing it into TiKV. The data imported into TiKV had a significant overlap range and required additional resources for processing, which reduced the performance and stability of TiKV.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Prior to v7.4.0, when executing tasks such as `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` using the [Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF)](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md), due to limited local storage space in TiDB, only a portion of the data could be sorted locally before importing it into TiKV. The data imported into TiKV had a significant overlap range and required additional resources for processing, which reduced the performance and stability of TiKV.
```

>     With the introduction of the global sort feature in v7.4.0, data can be temporarily stored in external storage (such as S3) for global sorting before being imported into TiKV. This improvement reduces resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`. This feature becomes GA in v7.6.0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    With the introduction of the global sort feature in v7.4.0, data can be temporarily stored in external storage (such as S3) for global sorting before being imported into TiKV. This improvement reduces resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations such as `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`. This feature becomes GA in v7.6.0.
```

    As more and more users use resource groups to isolate applications, Resource Control provides richer resource group-based data to assist you in observing resource group loads, resource group settings, and to ensure that you can quickly identify and accurately diagnose problems, including:

    * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * Add a system variable [`ru_by_last_statement`](), used to immediately get the RU consumption of the previous SQL.
    * Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, number of connections.

    For more information, see [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md), [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md), and [Key Monitoring Metrics of Resource Control](/grafana-resource-control-dashboard.md).

### Data migration

> * Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 become generally available (GA) [#issue号](链接) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 become generally available (GA) [#49981](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49981) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->
```

> * Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 become generally available (GA) [#49981](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49981) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 become generally available (GA) [#10405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10405) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Limits the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction. The default value is `0.1`. |

### System tables

- Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**

## Offline package changes

## Deprecated features

* 实验特性 [执行计划的自动演进绑定](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/sql-plan-management#%E8%87%AA%E5%8A%A8%E6%BC%94%E8%BF%9B%E7%BB%91%E5%AE%9A-baseline-evolution) 将在 v8.0.0 被废弃，等同的功能将会在后续版本被重新设计。

* 废弃功能 2

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - Notify TiKV promptly when terminating a query, which avoids TiKV executing data scan tasks that are not started yet [#issue](链接) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1634-->

Author: ```suggestion
```

> | TiKV | [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Modified | The algorithm used for compressing values in Titan, which takes value as the unit. Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default compression algorithm is `zstd`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Modified | The algorithm used for compressing values in Titan, which takes value as the unit. Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default compression algorithm is `zstd`. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |
```

| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Limits the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction. The default value is `0.1`. |
| TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |

### System tables

- Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Add a new system table [`mysql.request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to store the historical records of the RU consumption of each resource group. **tw@hfxsd**

```

  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Performance

* BR improves snapshot restore speed by up to 10 times (experimental) [#33937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33937) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1647-->

    As a TiDB cluster scales up, it becomes increasingly crucial to quickly restore the cluster from failures to minimize business downtime. Before v7.6.0, the Region scattering algorithm is a primary bottleneck in performance restoration. In v7.6.0, BR optimizes the Region scattering algorithm, which quickly splits the restore task into a large number of small tasks and scatters them to all TiKV nodes in batches. The new parallel recovery algorithm fully utilizes the resources of each TiKV node, thereby achieving a rapid parallel recovery. In several real-world cases, the snapshot restore speed of the cluster is improved by about 10 times in large-scale Region scenarios.

>     The new parallel recovery algorithm is experimental. To use it, you can configure the `--granularity=coarse-grained` parameter in the `br` command. You can also control the concurrency of restore tasks on each TiKV node by setting the `--tikv-max-restore-concurrency` parameter. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
    The new parallel recovery algorithm is experimental. To use it, you can configure the `--granularity=coarse-grained` parameter in the `br` command. You can also control the concurrency of download tasks on each TiKV node by setting the `--tikv-max-restore-concurrency` parameter. For example:
```

| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Limits the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction. The default value is `0.1`. |
| TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |

### System tables

- Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**

> - Add a new system table [`mysql.request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to store the historical records of the RU consumption of each resource group. **tw@hfxsd**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In the system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md), add the following fields related to Resource Control:
    - `Resource_group`: the resource group that the statement is bound to.
    - `Request_unit_read`: the total read RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Request_unit_write`: the total write RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Time_queued_by_rc`: the total time that the statement waits for available resources.
```

* Support pushing down the following string functions to TiKV [#48170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48170) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1607-->

    * `LOWER()`
    * `UPPER()`

    For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

* Support pushing down the following JSON functions to TiFlash [#48350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48350) [#48986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48986) [#48994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48994) [#49345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49345) [#49392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49392) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@qiancai** <!--1608-->

    * `JSON_UNQUOTE()`
    * `JSON_ARRAY()`
    * `JSON_DEPTH()`
    * `JSON_VALID()`
    * `JSON_KEYS()`
    * `JSON_CONTAINS_PATH()`

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Improve the performance of creating tables by 10 times (experimental) [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1408-->

>     In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new DDL architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new TiDB DDL V2 architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-从-v760-版本开始引入).

* Simplify the syntax for creating execution plan bindings [#48876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48876) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1613-->

    TiDB v7.6.0 simplifies the syntax for creating execution plan bindings. When creating an execution plan binding, you no longer need to provide the original SQL statement. TiDB identifies the original SQL statement based on the statement with hints. This improvement enhances the convenience of creating execution plan bindings. For example:

    ```sql
    CREATE GLOBAL BINDING
    USING
    SELECT /*+ merge_join(t1, t2) */ * FROM t1, t2 WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
    ```

>     For more information, see [documentation](/sql-plan-management.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-plan-management.md#create-a-binding-according-to-a-sql-statement).
```

* Support dynamically modifying the size limit of a single row record in TiDB [#49237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49237) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1452-->

>     Before v7.6.0, the size of a single row record in a transaction is limited by the TiDB configuration item [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-new-in-v50). If the size limit is exceeded, TiDB returns the `entry too large` error. In this case, you need to manually modify the TiDB configuration file and restart TiDB to make the modification take effect. To reduce the management overhead for users, TiDB v7.6.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760), which supports dynamically modifying the value of the `txn-entry-size-limit` configuration item. The default value of this variable is `0`, which means that TiDB uses the value of the configuration item `txn-entry-size-limit` by default. When this variable is set to a non-zero value, TiDB limits the size of a row record in transactions to the value of this variable. This improvement enhances the flexibility for users to adjust system configurations without restarting TiDB.

Author: ```suggestion
    Before v7.6.0, the size of a single row record in a transaction is limited by the TiDB configuration item [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-new-in-v50). If the size limit is exceeded, TiDB returns the `entry too large` error. In this case, you need to manually modify the TiDB configuration file and restart TiDB to make the modification take effect. To reduce your management overhead, TiDB v7.6.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760), which supports dynamically modifying the value of the `txn-entry-size-limit` configuration item. The default value of this variable is `0`, which means that TiDB uses the value of the configuration item `txn-entry-size-limit` by default. When this variable is set to a non-zero value, TiDB limits the size of a row record in transactions to the value of this variable. This improvement enhances the flexibility for you to adjust system configurations without restarting TiDB.
```

    With the introduction of the global sort feature in v7.4.0, data can be temporarily stored in external storage (such as S3) for global sorting before being imported into TiKV. This improvement reduces resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations such as `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`. This feature becomes GA in v7.6.0.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

* BR restores system tables by default, such as user data [#48567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48567) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1570/1628-->

    Starting from v5.1.0, when you back up snapshots, BR automatically backs up system tables in the `mysql` schema, but does not restore these system tables by default. In v6.2.0, BR adds the parameter `--with-sys-table` to support restoring data in some system tables, providing more flexibility in operations.

>     To further reduce the management overhead for users and provide more intuitive default behavior, starting from v7.6.0, BR enables the parameter `--with-sys-table` by default and supports restoring user data for the `cloud_admin` user. This means that BR restores some system tables during restoration by default, especially user account and table statistics data. This improvement makes backup and restore operations more intuitive and align with user expectations, thereby reducing the burden of manual configuration and improving the overall operation experience.

Author: ```suggestion
    To further reduce your management overhead and provide more intuitive default behavior, starting from v7.6.0, BR enables the parameter `--with-sys-table` by default and supports restoring user data for the `cloud_admin` user. This means that BR restores some system tables by default during restoration, especially user account and table statistics data. This improvement makes backup and restore operations more intuitive, thereby reducing the burden of manual configuration and improving the overall operation experience.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md).

### Observability

* Enhance observability related to resource control [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1668-->

    As more and more users use resource groups to isolate application workloads, Resource Control provides enhanced data based on resource groups. This helps you monitor resource group workloads and settings, ensuring that you can quickly identify and accurately diagnose problems, including:

    * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.

>     * In the system variable [`tidb_last_query_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_last_query_info-new-in-v4014), add consumed [RU](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) by SQL statements. You can use this variable to get the resource consumption of the last statement in the session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * In the system variable [`tidb_last_query_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_last_query_info-new-in-v4014), add a new entry `ru_consumption` to indicate the consumed [RU](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) by SQL statements. You can use this variable to get the resource consumption of the last statement in the session.
```

    * Add the system table [`request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to record the history records of daily consumed resource units (RUs) of all resource groups.

    For more information, see [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md), [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md), and [Key Monitoring Metrics of Resource Control](/grafana-resource-control-dashboard.md).

### Data migration

* Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 becomes generally available (GA) [#10405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10405) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->

    Previously, using DM to migrate data from MySQL 8.0 is an experimental feature and is not available for production environments. TiDB v7.6.0 enhances the stability and compatibility of this feature to help you smoothly and quickly migrate data from MySQL 8.0 to TiDB in production environments. In v7.6.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-compatibility-catalog.md).

> * TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (experimental) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1460-->

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (experimental) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1521/1525/1460-->
```

    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

* TiCDC supports querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1627-->

>     Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API  `GET /api/v2/changefeed/{changefeed_id}/synced` to query the downstream synchronization status of a specified replication task (changefeed). By using this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API `GET /api/v2/changefeed/{changefeed_id}/synced` to query the downstream synchronization status of a specified replication task (changefeed). By using this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.
```

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|  [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation.

> | [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added  | Controls whether to enable [TiDB DDL V2](/ddl-v2.md). Set the value to `2` to enable it and `1` to disable it. The default value is `1`. When TiDB DDL V2 is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using TiDB DDL V2. The execution speed of DDL statements for creating tables is increased by 10 times compared with TiDB DDL V1. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added  | Controls whether to enable [TiDB DDL V2](/ddl-v2.md). Set the value to `2` to enable it and `1` to disable it. The default value is `1`. When TiDB DDL V2 is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using TiDB DDL V2. The execution speed of DDL statements for creating tables is increased by 10 times compared with TiDB DDL V1. |
| [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added   | Controls whether to support creating `Global indexes` for partitioned tables. The default value is `OFF`. `Global index` is currently in the development stage. **It is not recommended to modify the value of this system variable**. |
```

>     Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC allows the CSV output protocol delimiters to specified as 1-3 characters long. With this change, users can configure TiCDC to generate file output using 2 character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or 3 character delimiters(such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC allows the CSV output protocol delimiters to specified as 1-3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using 2 character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or 3 character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.
```

> * TiCDC adds support for three character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1653-->
> 
>     Starting from v7.6.0 TiCDC allows the CSV output protocol delimiters to specified as 1-3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1653-->

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).
```

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|  [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation.

> | [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added  | Controls whether to enable [TiDB DDL V2](/ddl-v2.md). Set the value to `2` to enable it and `1` to disable it. The default value is `1`. When TiDB DDL V2 is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using TiDB DDL V2. The execution speed of DDL statements for creating tables is increased exponentially compared with TiDB DDL V1. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added  | Controls whether to enable [TiDB DDL V2](/ddl-v2.md). Set the value to `2` to enable it and `1` to disable it. The default value is `1`. When TiDB DDL V2 is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using TiDB DDL V2. The execution speed of DDL statements for creating tables is increased by 10 times compared with TiDB DDL V1. |
```

---
title: TiDB 7.6.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.6.0.
---

# TiDB 7.6.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 202x

TiDB version: 7.6.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.6.0#version-list)

7.6.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance<br></td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance<br></td>
```

    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/br-snapshot-guide#restore-cluster-snapshots">Achieve up to 10 times faster for snapshot restore (experimental)</a> {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>BR v7.6.0 introduces an experimental two-phase Region scatter algorithm to prepare snapshot restores for clusters. In clusters with many TiKV nodes, this algorithm significantly improves cluster resource efficiency by more evenly distributing load across nodes and better utilizing per-node network bandwidth. In several real-world cases, this improvement accelerates restore speed by about up to 10 times.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="">Achieve up to 10 times faster for creating tables in batch (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
    <td>With the implementation of the new DDL architecture in v7.6.0, the performance of batch table creation has witnessed a remarkable improvement, up to 10 times faster. This substantial enhancement drastically reduces the time needed for creating numerous tables. This acceleration is particularly noteworthy in SaaS scenarios, where the prevalence of high volumes of tables, ranging from tens to hundreds of thousands, is a common challenge.</td>

>   </tr>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tune-region-performance">Use Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In v7.6.0, the experimental feature was introduced to allow PD followers to provide Region information query services. This enhancement improves the capability of the PD cluster to handle GetRegion and ScanRegions requests in clusters with a large number of TiDB nodes and Regions, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.</td>
  </tr>
```

    The new parallel recovery algorithm is experimental. To use it, you can configure the `--granularity=coarse-grained` parameter in the `br` command. You can also control the concurrency of download tasks on each TiKV node by setting the `--tikv-max-restore-concurrency` parameter. For example:

    ```bash
    br restore full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://${Bucket}/${Folder}" \
    --s3.region "${region}" \
    --granularity "coarse-grained" \
    --tikv-max-restore-concurrency 128 \
    --send-credentials-to-tikv=true \
    --log-file restorefull.log
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

* The Titan engine is enabled by default [#16245] (https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16245) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

    To better support TiDB wide table write scenarios, especially with support for JSON, starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the Titan engine is enabled by default. The Titan engine automatically segregates large values exceeding 1KB from RocksDB's LST-Tree, and stores them separately in Titan to optimize the handling of large values. The Titan engine maintains 100% compatibility with RocksDB features utilized by TiKV. This strategic shift not only diminishes write amplification but also enhances performance in write, update, and spot-check scenarios involving large values. Additionally, in Range Scan scenarios, the Titan engine's optimization has resulted in performance comparable to that of RocksDB in the default configuration.

    This configuration change remains compatible with earlier versions. For existing TiDB clusters, when upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or a later version, the Titan engine is disabled by default. You have the flexibility to manually enable or disable the Titan engine based on your specific requirements. 

    For more information, see [documentation](/storage-engine/titan-overview.md).

```

    - During maintenance operations such as rolling restarts, rolling upgrades, and scaling-in in a TiDB cluster, changes occur in the TiDB servers which result in interruptions in connections between clients and the TiDB servers. By using TiProxy, connections can be smoothly migrated to other TiDB servers during these maintenance operations so that clients are not affected.
    - Client connections to a TiDB server cannot be dynamically migrated to other TiDB servers. When the workload of multiple TiDB servers is unbalanced, it might result in a situation where the overall cluster resources are sufficient, but certain TiDB servers experience resource exhaustion leading to a significant increase in latency. To address this issue, TiProxy provides dynamic migration for connection, which allows connections to be migrated from one TiDB server to another without any impact on the clients, thereby achieving load balancing for the TiDB cluster.

    TiProxy has been integrated into TiUP, TiDB Operator, and TiDB Dashboard, making it easy to configure, deploy and maintain.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

### Scalability

* Use Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service (experimental)[#7431](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7431) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1667-->
    
    In a TiDB cluster with a large number of Regions, the PD leader experiences high CPU load due to the overhead of handling heartbeats and scheduling tasks. If the cluster has many TiDB instances, and there is a high concurrency of requests for Region information, the CPU pressure on the PD leader increases further and might cause PD services to become unavailable. To address this situation, TiDB v7.6.0 introduced the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of the PD Region information query service. You can enable the Active PD Follower feature by setting the system variable [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-introduced-in-v760) to `ON`. After this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers. PD followers can also directly handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tune-region-performance.md).

```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1653-->

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> |  [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation.
```

> | [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation. The default value is `4`.  | 
```

7.6.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance<br></td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/sql-plan-management#cross-database-binding">Cross-database SQL binding</a> {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>When managing hundreds of databases with the same schema, it is often necessary to apply SQL bindings across these schemas. For example, in SaaS or PaaS data platforms, each user typically operates separate databases with the same schema and runs similar SQL queries on them. In this case, it is impractical to bind SQL for each schema one by one. TiDB v7.6.0 introduces cross-database SQL bindings that enable matching bindings across all schema-equivalent databases.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/br-snapshot-guide#restore-cluster-snapshots">Achieve up to 10 times faster for snapshot restore (experimental)</a> {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>

>     <td>BR v7.6.0 introduces an experimental two-phase Region scatter algorithm to prepare snapshot restores for clusters. In clusters with many TiKV nodes, this algorithm significantly improves cluster resource efficiency by more evenly distributing load across nodes and better utilizing per-node network bandwidth. In several real-world cases, this improvement accelerates restore speed by about up to 10 times.</td>

Reviewer: @qiancai PTAL

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="">Achieve up to 10 times faster for creating tables in batch (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
    <td>With the implementation of the new DDL architecture in v7.6.0, the performance of batch table creation has witnessed a remarkable improvement, up to 10 times faster. This substantial enhancement drastically reduces the time needed for creating numerous tables. This acceleration is particularly noteworthy in SaaS scenarios, where the prevalence of high volumes of tables, ranging from tens to hundreds of thousands, is a common challenge.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tune-region-performance">Use the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tune-region-performance#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service">Use the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
```

    <td>TiDB v7.6.0 introduces an experimental feature "Active PD Follower", which allows PD followers to provide Region information query services. This feature improves the capability of the PD cluster to handle GetRegion and ScanRegions requests in clusters with a large number of TiDB nodes and Regions, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.</td>

>   </tr>

Author: @samhld, this is a newly added feature highlight. PTAL. Thanks.

  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Reliability and Availability<br></td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview">Support TiProxy (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
    <td>Full support for the TiProxy service, easily deployable via deployment tooling, to manage and maintain connections to TiDB so that they live through rolling restarts, upgrades, or scaling events.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="">Data Migration (DM) officially supports MySQL 8.0 (GA)</a>  {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
    <td>Previously, using DM to migrate data from MySQL 8.0 is an experimental feature and is not available for production environments. TiDB v7.6.0 enhances the stability and compatibility of this feature to help you smoothly and quickly migrate data from MySQL 8.0 to TiDB in production environments. In v7.6.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

> * Use the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service (experimental) [#7431](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7431) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1667-->

Reviewer: @qiancai PTAL

    
    In a TiDB cluster with a large number of Regions, the PD leader might experience high CPU load due to the increased overhead of handling heartbeats and scheduling tasks. If the cluster has many TiDB instances, and there is a high concurrency of requests for Region information, the CPU pressure on the PD leader increases further and might cause PD services to become unavailable.
    
    To ensure high availability, TiDB v7.6.0 supports using the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service. You can enable the Active PD Follower feature by setting the system variable [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-introduced-in-v760) to `ON`. After this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers, and PD followers can also directly handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/tune-region-performance.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/tune-region-performance.md#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service).
```

>     To ensure high availability, TiDB v7.6.0 supports using the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service. You can enable the Active PD Follower feature by setting the system variable [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) to `ON`. After this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers, and PD followers can also directly handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.

Author: ```suggestion
    To ensure high availability, TiDB v7.6.0 supports using the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service. You can enable the Active PD Follower feature by setting the system variable [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) to `ON`. After this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers, and PD followers can also handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.
```

>     To ensure high availability, TiDB v7.6.0 supports using the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service. You can enable the Active PD Follower feature by setting the system variable [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-introduced-in-v760) to `ON`. After this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers, and PD followers can also directly handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To ensure high availability, TiDB v7.6.0 supports using the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service. You can enable the Active PD Follower feature by setting the system variable [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) to `ON`. After this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers, and PD followers can also directly handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1653-->

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |

> |--------|------------------------------|------|

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size-new-in-v640) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `128` after further tests.  |
```

| TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |

### System tables

- Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**
- In the system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md), add the following fields related to Resource Control:
    - `Resource_group`: the resource group that the statement is bound to.
    - `Request_unit_read`: the total read RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Request_unit_write`: the total write RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Time_queued_by_rc`: the total time that the statement waits for available resources.

## Offline package changes

## Deprecated features

> * 实验特性 [执行计划的自动演进绑定](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/sql-plan-management#%E8%87%AA%E5%8A%A8%E6%BC%94%E8%BF%9B%E7%BB%91%E5%AE%9A-baseline-evolution) 将在 v8.0.0 被废弃，等同的功能将会在后续版本被重新设计。

Author: ```suggestion
* The [baseline evolution](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) feature for execution plans will be deprecated in TiDB v8.0.0. The equivalent functionality will be redesigned in the subsequent versions.
* The [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable will be deprecated in TiDB v8.0.0. After that, TiDB will no longer support automatic retries of optimistic transactions.
```

        - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/ticdc-canal-json#compatibility-with-the-official-canal) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Storage sink 中增加对分段上传到Amazon S3 的支持[#10098](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10098) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - 支持 TiCDC 构建 fips-ready 的 binary[#9962](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9962)@[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - TiCDC 增加支持 mtls 的配置 `security.mtls`[#10015](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10015)@[zhangjinpeng87](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng87)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        <!--tw@ran-huang 1 条-->
        - 为 DM OpenAPI 增加了全量导入物理导入相关配置 [#10193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10193) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

    + TiDB Lightning

        <!--tw@hfxsd 2 条-->

>         - 支持配置多个 PD 地址增强稳定性 [#49515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49515) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
>         - 支持配置 lightning 内部 IO 操作大小提升性能 [#45037](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45037) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Supports configuring multiple PD addresses to enhance stability [#49515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49515) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
        - Support configuring the internal I/O operation size `block-size` of TiDB Lightning to improve performance [#45037](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45037) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
```

    When running SaaS services on TiDB, it is common practice to store data for each tenant in separate databases for easier data maintenance and management. This results in hundreds of databases with the same table and index definitions, and similar SQL statements. In such scenario, when you create an execution plan binding for a SQL statement, this binding usually applies to the SQL statements in other databases as well.

    For this scenario, TiDB v7.6.0 introduces the cross-database binding feature, which supports binding the same execution plan to SQL statements with the same schema, even if they are in different databases. When creating a cross-database binding, you need to use the wildcard `*` to represent the database name, as shown in the following example. After the binding is created, regardless of which database the tables `t1` and `t2` are in, TiDB will try to use this binding to generate an execution plan for any SQL statement with the same schema, which saves your effort to create a binding for each database.

    ```sql
    CREATE GLOBAL BINDING FOR
    USING

>         SELECT /*+ merge_join(t1, t2) */ t1.id, t2.amount FROM *.t1, *.t2 WHERE t1.id = t2.id;

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        SELECT /*+ merge_join(t1, t2) */ t1.id, t2.amount
        FROM *.t1, *.t2
        WHERE t1.id = t2.id;
```

To avoid scrolling.

    - Client connections to a TiDB server cannot be dynamically migrated to other TiDB servers. When the workload of multiple TiDB servers is unbalanced, it might result in a situation where the overall cluster resources are sufficient, but certain TiDB servers experience resource exhaustion leading to a significant increase in latency. To address this issue, TiProxy provides dynamic migration for connection, which allows connections to be migrated from one TiDB server to another without any impact on the clients, thereby achieving load balancing for the TiDB cluster.

    TiProxy has been integrated into TiUP, TiDB Operator, and TiDB Dashboard, making it easy to configure, deploy and maintain.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

### SQL

* `LOAD DATA` supports explicit transactions and rollbacks [#49079](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49079) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1422-->

>     Compared with MySQL, the transactional behavior of the`LOAD DATA` statement varies in different TiDB versions before v7.6.0, so you might need to make additional adjustments when using this statement. Specifically, before v4.0.0, `LOAD DATA` commits every 20000 rows. From v4.0.0 to v6.6.0, TiDB commits all rows in one transaction by default and also supports committing every fixed number of rows by setting the [`tidb_dml_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_batch_size) system variable. Starting from v7.0.0, `tidb_dml_batch_size` no longer takes effect on `LOAD DATA` and TiDB commits all rows in one transaction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Compared with MySQL, the transactional behavior of the `LOAD DATA` statement varies in different TiDB versions before v7.6.0, so you might need to make additional adjustments when using this statement. Specifically, before v4.0.0, `LOAD DATA` commits every 20000 rows. From v4.0.0 to v6.6.0, TiDB commits all rows in one transaction by default and also supports committing every fixed number of rows by setting the [`tidb_dml_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_batch_size) system variable. Starting from v7.0.0, `tidb_dml_batch_size` no longer takes effect on `LOAD DATA` and TiDB commits all rows in one transaction.
```

    As more and more users use resource groups to isolate application workloads, Resource Control provides enhanced data based on resource groups. This helps you monitor resource group workloads and settings, ensuring that you can quickly identify and accurately diagnose problems, including:

    * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * In the system variable [`tidb_last_query_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_last_query_info-new-in-v4014), add a new entry `ru_consumption` to indicate the consumed [RU](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) by SQL statements. You can use this variable to get the resource consumption of the last statement in the session.
    * Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, number of connections.

>     * Add the system table [`request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to record the history records of daily consumed resource units (RUs) of all resource groups.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Add the system table [`request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to record the history records of daily consumed RUs of all resource groups.
```

  For more information, see [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md), [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md), and [Key Monitoring Metrics of Resource Control](/grafana-resource-control-dashboard.md).

### Data migration

> * Data Migration (DM) support for migrating MySQL 8.0 becomes generally available (GA) [#10405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10405) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Data Migration (DM) supports for migrating MySQL 8.0 becomes generally available (GA) [#10405](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10405) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1617-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-compatibility-catalog.md).

* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (experimental) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1521/1525/1460-->

    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC supports replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the `PRIMARY` BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

* TiCDC supports querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1627-->

>     Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API `GET /api/v2/changefeed/{changefeed_id}/synced` to query the downstream synchronization status of a specified replication task (changefeed). By using this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API `GET /api/v2/changefeed/{changefeed_id}/synced` to query the downstream replication status of a specified replication task (changefeed). By using this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been replicated to the downstream system completely.
```

Author: 这里的同步是 replication 的 synchronization 😂

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1653-->

>     Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two-character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three-character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.
```

| [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added  | Controls whether to enable [TiDB DDL V2](/ddl-v2.md). Set the value to `2` to enable it and `1` to disable it. The default value is `1`. When TiDB DDL V2 is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using TiDB DDL V2. The execution speed of DDL statements for creating tables is increased by 10 times compared with TiDB DDL V1. |
| [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added   | Controls whether to support creating `Global indexes` for partitioned tables. The default value is `OFF`. `Global index` is currently in the development stage. **It is not recommended to modify the value of this system variable**. |
| [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls the idle timeout for transactions in a user session. When a user session is in a transactional state and remains idle for a duration exceeding the value of this variable, TiDB will terminate the session. The default value `0` means unlimited. |

> | [`tidb_opt_enable_fuzzy_binding`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_fuzzy_binding-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the cross-database binding feature. The default value `OFF` means cross-database binding is disabled by default. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_opt_enable_fuzzy_binding`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_fuzzy_binding-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the cross-database binding feature. The default value `OFF` means cross-database binding is disabled. |
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | The default value is "". The default supported TLS versions of TiDB are changed from `TLS1.1` or higher to `TLS1.2` or higher. |
| TiKV | [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Modified | The algorithm used for compressing values in Titan, which takes value as the unit. Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default compression algorithm is `zstd`. |

> | TiKV | [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan.min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) | Modified   | Starting with TiDB v7.6.0, the default value for new clusters is `32KB`. For existing clusters upgrading to v7.6.0, the default value `1KB` remains unchanged. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan.min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) | Modified   | Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default value for new clusters is `32KB`. For existing clusters upgrading to v7.6.0, the default value `1KB` remains unchanged. |
```

| TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |
| TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | Configures the addresses of the PD Servers. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |

> | TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the I/O block size for sorting local files in the physical import (`backend='local'`). The default value is `16KiB`. When the disk IOPS is a bottleneck, you can increase this value to improve performance. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the I/O block size for sorting local files in Physical Import Mode (`backend='local'`). The default value is `16KiB`. When the disk IOPS is a bottleneck, you can increase this value to improve performance. |
```

| TiCDC | [`sink.cloud-storage-config`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Sets the automatic cleanup of historical data when replicating data to object storage. |

### System tables

- Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**
- In the system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md), add the following fields related to Resource Control:
    - `Resource_group`: the resource group that the statement is bound to.
    - `Request_unit_read`: the total read RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Request_unit_write`: the total write RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Time_queued_by_rc`: the total time that the statement waits for available resources.

## Offline package changes

Starting from v7.6.0, the `TiDB-community-server` [binary-package](/binary-package.md) now includes `tiproxy-{version}-linux-{arch}.tar.gz`, which is the installation package for the proxy component [TiProxy](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

> ## Deprecated features

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## Deprecated features
* Support for the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols has been deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming version. Please upgrade to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.
```

> ## Deprecated features

Reviewer 8: LGTM

> ## Deprecated features

Author: @Oreoxmt PTAL

    - Fix the issue that specifying placement rules when executing `ALTER TABLE t PARTITION BY` reports the error `ERROR 8239` [#48630](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48630) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that the `START_TIME` column type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_INFO` is not valid [#45221](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45221) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue that invalid `EXTRA` column type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS` leads to the error `Data Too Long, field len 30, data len 45` [#42030](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42030) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that `IN (...) ` causes different plan digests in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STATEMENTS_SUMMARY` [#33559](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33559) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)
    - Fix the issue that when converting the `TIME` type to the `YEAR` type, the returned result mixes `TIME` and the year [#48557](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48557) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that disabling `tidb_enable_collect_execution_info` causes the coppercessor cache to panic [#48212](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48212) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that disabling `tidb_enable_collect_execution_info` causes the coprocessor cache to panic [#48212](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48212) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987)

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two-character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three-character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### MySQL compatibility
Before TiDB v7.6.0, the `LOAD DATA` operation commits all rows in a single transaction or commits transactions in a batch, which is slightly different from MySQL behaviors. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB processes `LOAD DATA` in transactions in the same way as MySQL. The `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction no longer automatically commits the current transaction or starts a new transaction. Moreover, you can explicitly commit or roll back the `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction. Additionally, the `LOAD DATA` statement is affected by the TiDB transaction mode setting (optimistic or pessimistic transaction). [#49079](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49079) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### MySQL compatibility

Before TiDB v7.6.0, the `LOAD DATA` operation commits all rows in a single transaction or commits transactions in a batch, which is slightly different from MySQL. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB processes `LOAD DATA` in transactions in the same way as MySQL. The `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction no longer automatically commits the current transaction or starts a new transaction. Moreover, you can explicitly commit or roll back the `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction. Additionally, the `LOAD DATA` statement is affected by the TiDB transaction mode setting (optimistic or pessimistic transaction). [#49079](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49079) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
```

Author: @Oreoxmt PTAL. Thanks.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987)

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two-character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three-character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> 
> ### Behavior changes

Author: ```suggestion
```

| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Limits the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction. The default value is `0.1`. |
| TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |
| TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | Configures the addresses of the PD Servers. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |
| TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the I/O block size for sorting local files in Physical Import Mode (`backend='local'`). The default value is `16KiB`. When the disk IOPS is a bottleneck, you can increase this value to improve performance. |

> | BR | `--granularity` | Newly added | Uses the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm (experimental) by specifying `--granularity="coarse-grained"`. This accelerates restore speed in large-scale Region scenarios. |
> | BR | `--tikv-max-restore-concurrency` | Newly added | Controls the concurrency of download tasks for each TiKV node when using the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| BR | [`--granularity`](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#performance-and-impact-of-snapshot-restore) | Newly added | Uses the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm (experimental) by specifying `--granularity="coarse-grained"`. This accelerates restore speed in large-scale Region scenarios. |
| BR | [`--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#performance-and-impact-of-snapshot-restore) | Newly added | Controls the concurrency of download tasks for each TiKV node when using the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm. |
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987)

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two-character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three-character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> ### MySQL compatibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### MySQL compatibility

```

    <td>When managing hundreds of databases with the same schema, it is often necessary to apply SQL bindings across these schemas. For example, in SaaS or PaaS data platforms, each user typically operates separate databases with the same schema and runs similar SQL queries on them. In this case, it is impractical to bind SQL for each schema one by one. TiDB v7.6.0 introduces cross-database SQL bindings that enable matching bindings across all schema-equivalent databases.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/br-snapshot-guide#restore-cluster-snapshots">Achieve up to 10 times faster for snapshot restore (experimental)</a></td>
    <td>BR v7.6.0 introduces an experimental coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm to prepare snapshot restores for clusters. In clusters with many TiKV nodes, this algorithm significantly improves cluster resource efficiency by more evenly distributing load across nodes and better utilizing per-node network bandwidth. In several real-world cases, this improvement accelerates restore speed by about up to 10 times.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="">Achieve up to 10 times faster for creating tables in batch (experimental)</a></td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/ddl-v2">Achieve up to 10 times faster for creating tables in batch (experimental)</a></td>
```

    <td>With the implementation of the new DDL architecture in v7.6.0, the performance of batch table creation has witnessed a remarkable improvement, up to 10 times faster. This substantial enhancement drastically reduces the time needed for creating numerous tables. This acceleration is particularly noteworthy in SaaS scenarios, where the prevalence of high volumes of tables, ranging from tens to hundreds of thousands, is a common challenge.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tune-region-performance#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service">Use Active PD Followers to scale PD's Region information query service, ultimately scaling the cluster (experimental)</a></td>

>     <td>TiDB v7.6.0 introduces an experimental feature "Active PD Follower", which allows PD followers to provide Region information query services. This feature improves the capability of the PD cluster to handle GetRegion and ScanRegions requests in clusters with a large number of TiDB nodes and Regions, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB v7.6.0 introduces an experimental feature "Active PD Follower", which allows PD followers to provide Region information query services. This feature improves the capability of the PD cluster to handle <code>GetRegion</code> and <code>ScanRegions</code> requests in clusters with a large number of TiDB nodes and Regions, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview">Support TiProxy (experimental)</a></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tiproxy-overview">Support TiProxy (experimental)</a></td>
```

    <td>Full support for the TiProxy service, easily deployable via deployment tooling, to manage and maintain connections to TiDB so that they live through rolling restarts, upgrades, or scaling events.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="">Data Migration (DM) officially supports MySQL 8.0 (GA)</a></td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/dm-compatibility-catalog">Data Migration (DM) officially supports MySQL 8.0 (GA)</a></td>
```

    In a TiDB cluster with a large number of Regions, the PD leader might experience high CPU load due to the increased overhead of handling heartbeats and scheduling tasks. If the cluster has many TiDB instances, and there is a high concurrency of requests for Region information, the CPU pressure on the PD leader increases further and might cause PD services to become unavailable.

    To ensure high availability, TiDB v7.6.0 supports using the Active PD Follower feature to enhance the scalability of PD's Region information query service. You can enable the Active PD Follower feature by setting the system variable [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) to `ON`. After this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers, and PD followers can also handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tune-region-performance.md#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service).

### Performance

> * BR improves snapshot restore speed by up to 10 times (experimental) [#33937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33937) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Author: ```suggestion
* BR improves snapshot restore speed by up to 10 times (experimental) [#33937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33937) [#49886](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49886) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

    * `JSON_UNQUOTE()`
    * `JSON_ARRAY()`
    * `JSON_DEPTH()`
    * `JSON_VALID()`
    * `JSON_KEYS()`
    * `JSON_CONTAINS_PATH()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Improve the performance of creating tables by 10 times (experimental) [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd)

    In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new TiDB DDL V2 architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-v2.md).

* Support periodic full compaction (experimental) [#12729](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12729)

>     Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports periodic full compaction for TiKV. This feature serves as enhancement to Garbage Collection (GC) to eliminate redundant data versions. In scenarios where application activity shows obvious peaks and valleys, you can use this feature to perform data compaction during idle periods to improve the performance during peak periods.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports periodic full compaction for TiKV. This feature serves as an enhancement to Garbage Collection (GC) to eliminate redundant data versions. In scenarios where application activity shows obvious peaks and valleys, you can use this feature to perform data compaction during idle periods to improve the performance during peak periods.
```

    Before v7.6.0, the size of a single row record in a transaction is limited by the TiDB configuration item [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-new-in-v50). If the size limit is exceeded, TiDB returns the `entry too large` error. In this case, you need to manually modify the TiDB configuration file and restart TiDB to make the modification take effect. To reduce your management overhead, TiDB v7.6.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760), which supports dynamically modifying the value of the `txn-entry-size-limit` configuration item. The default value of this variable is `0`, which means that TiDB uses the value of the configuration item `txn-entry-size-limit` by default. When this variable is set to a non-zero value, TiDB limits the size of a row record in transactions to the value of this variable. This improvement enhances the flexibility for you to adjust system configurations without restarting TiDB.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760).

> * BR restores system tables by default, such as user data [#48567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48567) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)

Author: ```suggestion
* BR restores system tables by default, such as user data [#48567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48567) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger) [#49627](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49627) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

### Observability

* Enhance observability related to resource control [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

    As more and more users use resource groups to isolate application workloads, Resource Control provides enhanced data based on resource groups. This helps you monitor resource group workloads and settings, ensuring that you can quickly identify and accurately diagnose problems, including:

    * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, resource unit (RU) consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * In the system variable [`tidb_last_query_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_last_query_info-new-in-v4014), add a new entry `ru_consumption` to indicate the consumed [RU](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) by SQL statements. You can use this variable to get the resource consumption of the last statement in the session.

>     * Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, number of connections.

Author: ```suggestion
    * Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, and number of connections.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

* TiCDC supports querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

    Starting from v7.6.0, TiCDC introduces a new API `GET /api/v2/changefeed/{changefeed_id}/synced` to query the downstream synchronization status of a specified replication task (changefeed). By using this API, you can determine whether the upstream data received by TiCDC has been synchronized to the downstream system completely.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

> * TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng87](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng87)
```

    - Support merging identical data reading operations in a storage-compute separation architecture to improve data scanning performance under high concurrency [#6834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6834) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - To reduce the cost of logging, the default value of the TiFlash configuration item `logger.level` has been changed from `"debug"` to `"INFO"` [#8563](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8563) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Optimize the execution performance of `SEMI JOIN` and `LEFT OUTER SEMIJOIN` when only JOIN KEY equality conditions are included in `JOIN ON` [#47424](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47424) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Introduce a new integration test for Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR) in the `delete range` scenario, enhancing PITR stability  [#47738](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47738) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - Improve the table creation performance of the `RESTORE` statement in scenarios with large datasets [#48301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48301) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Improve the table creation performance of the `RESTORE` statement in scenarios with large datasets [#48301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48301) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - 重构 BR 异常处理机制, 增加对未知错误的容忍度 [#47656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47656) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

```

Reviewer 3: LGTM

    - Fix the issue that the result of `COUNT(INT)` calculated by MPP might be incorrect [#48643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48643) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that executing `ALTER TABLE ... LAST PARTITION` fails when the partition column type is `DATETIME` [#48814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48814) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that using the `_` wildcard in `LIKE` when the data contains trailing spaces can result in incorrect query results [#48983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48983) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that high CPU usage of TiDB occurs due to long-term memory pressure caused by `tidb_server_memory_limit` [#48741](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48741) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - Fix the issue that the query result is incorrect when an `ENUM` type column is used as the join key [#48991](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48991) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Fix the issue that queries containing common table expressions (CTEs) unexpectedly get stuck when the memory limit is exceeded [#49096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49096) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that queries containing common table expressions (CTEs) unexpectedly get stuck when the memory limit is exceeded [#49096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49096) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - Fix the issue that Flashback might get stuck when encountering `notLeader` or `regionNotFound` [#15712](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15712) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that if TiKV runs extremely slowly, it might panic after Region merge [#16111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16111) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot read in-memory pessimistic locks when GC scans expired locks [#15066](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15066) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Fix the issue that the blob file size in Titan monitoring is incorrect [#15971](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15971) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue that replicating large tables using TiCDC might cause TiKV to OOM  [#16035](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16035) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue that resolve ts might be blocked for 2 hours [#11847](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11847) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>     - Fix the issue that the log backup task might encounter memory leak and fail to run properly after startup [#16070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16070) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: moved it to https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/15702/files#r1464526255

    - Fix the issue that TiDB and TiKV might produce inconsistent results when processing `DECIMAL` arithmetic multiplication truncation [#16268](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16268) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Fix the issue that `cast_duration_as_time` might return incorrect results [#16211](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16211) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV converts the time zone incorrectly for Brazil and Egypt [#16220](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16220) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when gRPC threads are checking `is_shutdown` [#16236](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16236) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)

>     + PD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ PD
```

    - Fix the incompatibility issue in the `INET_NTOA()` expression [#8211](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8211) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Fix the potential OOM issue that might occur when scanning multiple partitioned tables during stream read [#8505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8505) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that short queries executed successfully print excessive info logs [#8592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8592) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might crash when it is stopped [#8550](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8550) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the random invalid memory access issue that might occur with `GREATEST` or `LEAST` functions containing constant string parameters [#8604](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8604) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that BR generates incorrect URIs for external storage files [#48452](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48452) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

>         - Fix the issue that the log backup task can start but does not work properly if failing to connect to PD during task initialization [#16056](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16056) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the log backup task can start but does not work properly if failing to connect to PD during task initialization [#16056](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16056) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that the log backup task might encounter memory leak and fail to run properly after startup [#16070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16070) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the log backup task might encounter memory leak and fail to run properly after startup [#16070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16070) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the log backup task might encounter memory leak and fail to run properly after startup [#16070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16070) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - 重构 BR 异常处理机制, 增加对未知错误的容忍度 [#47656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47656) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        -  修复 PITR 恢复过程中插入系统表 `mysql.gc_delete_range` 出错的问题 [#49346](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49346) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        -  修复从旧版本的备份恢复数据时报错 collation 不支持的问题 [#49466](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49466) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - 修复在部分场景下通过快照恢复用户表后权限更新不及时的问题 [#49394](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49394) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the issue that the `WHERE` clause does not use the primary key as a condition when replicating `DELETE` statements in certain scenarios [#9812](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9812) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that the TiCDC server might panic when replicating data to an object storage service [#10137](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10137) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Fix the potential data race issue during `kv-client` initialization [#10095](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10095) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly closes the connection with TiKV in certain special scenarios [#10239](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10239) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC server might panic when executing lossy DDL statements in upstream [#9739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9739) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

>         - Fix the issue that `checkpoint-ts` might get stuck when TiCDC replicates data to downstream MySQL [#10334](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10334) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `checkpoint-ts` might get stuck when TiCDC replicates data to downstream MySQL [#10334](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10334) @[zhangjinpeng87](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng87)
```

    * Statistics on multi-valued indexes are collected and applied by the optimizer for estimation. When a SQL statement might select multiple multi-valued indexes, the optimizer can identify the index with lower cost.
    * When there are multiple `member of` conditions connected by `OR`, the optimizer is able to match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine multiple paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This allows more efficient condition filtering and data querying.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes).

* Support periodic full compaction (experimental) [#12729](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12729) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1610-->

    Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports periodic full compaction for TiKV. This feature serves as enhancement to Garbage Collection (GC) to eliminate redundant data versions. In scenarios where application activity shows obvious peaks and valleys, you can use this feature to perform data compaction during idle periods to improve the performance during peak periods.

>     You can set the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction by configuring the TiKV configuration item [`periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) and limit the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction by configuring [`periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760). The default value of `periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu` is 100%, which means that periodic full compaction is triggered only when the CPU utilization of TiKV is lower than one CPU core, thereby reducing the impact on application traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can set the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction by configuring the TiKV configuration item [`periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) and limit the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction by configuring [`periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760). The default value of `periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu` is 10%, which means that periodic full compaction is triggered only when the CPU utilization of TiKV is lower than 10%, thereby reducing the impact on application traffic.
```

| [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Dynamically modifies the TiDB configuration item [`performance.txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-new-in-v50). It limits the size of a single row of data in TiDB. The default value of this variable is `0`, which means that TiDB uses the value of the configuration item `txn-entry-size-limit` by default. When this variable is set to a non-zero value, `txn-entry-size-limit` is also set to the same value. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiKV | [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Modified | The algorithm used for compressing values in Titan, which takes value as the unit. Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default compression algorithm is `zstd`. |

> | TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |
| TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | The address of the PD Server. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |
```

Reviewer 3: @Frank945946 PTAL

Reviewer 5: LGTM

| TiCDC | [`flush-worker-num`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of flushing workers in the redo module. The default value is 8. |
| TiCDC | [`compression`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the behavior to compress redo log files. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.cloud-storage-config`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Sets the automatic cleanup of historical data when replicating data to object storage. |

### System tables

- Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**
- In the system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md), add the following fields related to Resource Control:
    - `Resource_group`: the resource group that the statement is bound to.
    - `Request_unit_read`: the total read RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Request_unit_write`: the total write RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Time_queued_by_rc`: the total time that the statement waits for available resources.

## Offline package changes

> Starting from v7.6.0, the `TiDB-community-server` [binary-package](/binary-package.md) now includes `tiproxy-{version}-linux-{arch}.tar.gz`, which is the installation package for the proxy component [TiProxy](tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from v7.6.0, the `TiDB-community-server` [binary-package](/binary-package.md) now includes `tiproxy-{version}-linux-{arch}.tar.gz`, which is the installation package for the proxy component [TiProxy](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue of excessive statistical error in constructing statistics caused by Golang's implicit conversion algorithm [#49801](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49801) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that Daylight Saving Time is displayed incorrectly in some time zones [#49586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49586) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that tables with `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` might lead to gRPC client leaks when there are a large number of tables [#48869](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48869) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that TiDB server might panic during graceful shutdown [#36793](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36793) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
    <!--tw@hfxsd 以下 23 条-->

>     - 修复 `admin recover index` 在处理含 CommonHandle 的表时会 panic 的问题 [#47687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47687) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - 修复 `ALTER TABLE t PARTITION BY` 时指定 placement rules 报错的问题 [#48631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/48631) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
>     - 修复 `information_schema.CLUSTER_INFO` 中 `START_TIME` 列类型不合理的问题 [#45221](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45221) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
>     - 修复 `information_schema. columns` 中 `EXTRA` 列类型不合理的问题 [#42030](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42030) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复类似的 `IN (...)` 语句会生成不同 plan_digest 的问题 [#33559](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33559) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)
>     - 修复 `TIME` 类型转换为 `YEAR` 类型时的问题，修复后会返回表示时间的字符串，而不是混合 `TIME` 和当前时间的年份结果。[#48557](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48557) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复了当 `tidb_enable_collect_execution_info` 关闭时 copr cache panic 的问题 [#48212](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48212) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - 修复了 shuffleExec 意外退出导致 tidb 崩溃的问题 [#48230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48230) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - 修复了静态 `calibrate resource` 依赖于 prometheus 数据的 bug [#49174](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49174) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
>     - 修复了在日期和大的 interval 做加法时的行为，使与 Mysql8.0 一致，此 PR 之后，1）带有无效前缀的 interval将被视为零值 2）带有字符串 "true" 的 interval 将被视为零值 [#49227](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49227) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
>     - 修复了对函数 ROW 的 null 类型推断问题 [#49015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49015) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - 修复了在某些情况下 `ilike` 函数的数据竞争问题 [#49677](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49677) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
>     - 修复了 StreamAgg 因为错误处理 ci 的而引起的结果不正确的问题[#49902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49902) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - 修复了表达式 `inet_ntoa()` 中的兼容性问题 [#46598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46598) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
>     - 修复了将字节转换为时间编码失败的问题 [#47346](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47346) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - 修复了 deicmal 乘法运算时截断处理有误的错误结果问题 [#48332](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48332) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
>     - 修复 CHECK 约束 ENFORCED 选项与 MySQL 8.0 不一致的错误 [#47567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47567) [#47631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47631) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
>     - 修复 CHECK 约束的 DDL 卡住的问题 [#47632](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47632) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
>     - 修复 DDL 快速加索引由于内存不足失败的问题 [#47862](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47862) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
>     - 修复在集群升级过程中加索引可能导致数据与索引不一致的问题 [#47862](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47862) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
>     - 修复 ADMIN CHECK 无法使用更新后的 `tidb_mem_quota_query` 变量的问题 [#49258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49258) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复对外键的被引用列 ALTER TABLE 可能遇到的问题 [#49836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49836) [#47702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47702) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)
>     - 修复某些场景下表达式索引不会发现“除以 0”错误的问题 [#50053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50053) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `ADMIN RECOVER INDEX` reports `ERROR 1105` when processing a table containing `CommonHandle` [#47687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47687) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that specifying placement rules when executing `ALTER TABLE t PARTITION BY` reports the error `ERROR 8239` [#48630](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48630) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that the `START_TIME` column type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_INFO` is not valid [#45221](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45221) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue that invalid `EXTRA` column type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS` leads to the error `Data Too Long, field len 30, data len 45` [#42030](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42030) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that `IN (...) ` causes different plan digests in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STATEMENTS_SUMMARY` [#33559](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33559) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)
    - 修复 `TIME` 类型转换为 `YEAR` 类型时，返回的结果混合了 `TIME` 和年份的问题 [#48557](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48557) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - 修复关闭 `tidb_enable_collect_execution_info` 导致 Coprocessor Cache panic 的问题 [#48212](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48212) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - 修复 `shuffleExec` 意外退出导致 TiDB 崩溃的问题 [#48230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48230) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 修复静态 `CALIBRATE RESOURCE` 依赖 Prometheus 数据的问题 [#49174](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49174) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - 修复在日期中加上数值较大的 Interval 时返回错误结果的问题，使其与 MySQL 8.0 保持一致。修复后，带有无效前缀或字符串 `true` 的 Interval 将被视为零值 [#49227](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49227) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复对函数 ROW 对 `null` 类型推断有误导致意外报错的问题 [#49015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49015) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 修复在某些情况下 `ILIKE` 函数可能导致数据竞争的问题 [#49677](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49677) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复 STREAM_AGG() 因为错误处理 CI 导致的结果不正确的问题 [#49902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49902) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 修复将字节转换为时间编码失败的问题 [#47346](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47346) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 修复 `CHECK` 约束的 `ENFORCED` 选项的行为与 MySQL 8.0 不一致的错误 [#47567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47567) [#47631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47631) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - 修复 `CHECK` 约束的 DDL 卡住的问题 [#47632](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47632) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - 修复由于内存不足导致 DDL 快速加索引失败的问题 [#47862](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47862) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - 修复在执行加索引的过程中升级集群可能导致数据与索引不一致的问题 [#46306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46306) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - 修复更新 `tidb_mem_quota_query` 系统变量后执行 `ADMIN CHECK` 报错 `ERROR 8175` 的问题 [#49258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49258) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
   - 修复 `ALTER TABLE` 修改外键引用列的类型时，DECIMAL 精度发生变化没有报错的问题 [#49836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49836) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)
   - 修复 `ALTER TABLE` 修改外键引用列的类型时，INTEGER 长度发生变化误报错的问题 [#47702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47702) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)
    - 修复某些场景下表达式索引没有发现除数是 0 的问题 [#50053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50053) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

    * `JSON_UNQUOTE()`
    * `JSON_ARRAY()`
    * `JSON_DEPTH()`
    * `JSON_VALID()`
    * `JSON_KEYS()`
    * `JSON_CONTAINS_PATH()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Improve the performance of creating tables by 10 times (experimental) [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd)

    In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new TiDB DDL V2 architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-v2.md).

> * Support periodic full compaction (experimental) [#12729](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12729)

Author: ```suggestion
* Support periodic full compaction (experimental) [#12729](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12729)  [afeinberg](https://github.com/afeinberg)
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng87](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng87)

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two-character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three-character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### MySQL compatibility

> Before TiDB v7.6.0, the `LOAD DATA` operation commits all rows in a single transaction or commits transactions in a batch, which is slightly different from MySQL behaviors. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB processes `LOAD DATA` in transactions in the same way as MySQL. The `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction no longer automatically commits the current transaction or starts a new transaction. Moreover, you can explicitly commit or roll back the `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction. Additionally, the `LOAD DATA` statement is affected by the TiDB transaction mode setting (optimistic or pessimistic transaction). [#49079](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49079) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

Author: ```suggestion
* Before TiDB v7.6.0, the `LOAD DATA` operation commits all rows in a single transaction or commits transactions in a batch, which is slightly different from MySQL behaviors. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB processes `LOAD DATA` in transactions in the same way as MySQL. The `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction no longer automatically commits the current transaction or starts a new transaction. Moreover, you can explicitly commit or roll back the `LOAD DATA` statement in a transaction. Additionally, the `LOAD DATA` statement is affected by the TiDB transaction mode setting (optimistic or pessimistic transaction). [#49079](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/49079) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
```

| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Limits the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction. The default value is `0.1`. |
| TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |

### System tables

- Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB. **tw@Oreoxmt**
- In the system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md), add the following fields related to Resource Control:
    - `Resource_group`: the resource group that the statement is bound to.
    - `Request_unit_read`: the total read RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Request_unit_write`: the total write RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Time_queued_by_rc`: the total time that the statement waits for available resources.

## Offline package changes

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Starting from v7.6.0, the `TiDB-community-server` [binary-package](/binary-package.md) now includes `tiproxy-{version}- linux-{arch}.tar.gz`, which is the installation package for the proxy component [TiProxy](tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

```

    - Optimize the execution performance of `SEMI JOIN` and `LEFT OUTER SEMIJOIN` when only JOIN KEY equality conditions are included in `JOIN ON` [#47424](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47424) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Introduce a new integration test for Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR) in the `delete range` scenario, enhancing PITR stability  [#47738](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47738) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Improve the table creation performance of the `RESTORE` statement in scenarios with large datasets [#48301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48301) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Refactor the BR exception handling mechanism to increase tolerance for unknown errors [#47656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47656) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

    + TiCDC

        - Improve the performance of TiCDC replicating data to object storage by increasing parallelism [#10098](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10098) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/ticdc-canal-json#compatibility-with-the-official-canal) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](/ticdc/ticdc-canal-json#compatibility-with-the-official-canal) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

>         - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](/ticdc/ticdc-canal-json#compatibility-with-the-official-canal) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](/ticdc/ticdc-canal-json.md#compatibility-with-the-official-canal) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    - Fix the issue that histogram statistics might not be parsed into readable strings when the histogram boundary contains `NULL` [#49823](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49823) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that executing queries containing the `GROUP_CONCAT(ORDER BY)` syntax might return errors [#49986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, and `INSERT` statements return overflow errors instead of warnings when the `SQL_MODE` is not strict [#49137](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49137) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that data cannot be inserted when a table has a composite index consisting of multi-valued indexes and non-binary type strings [#49680](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49680) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that `LIMIT` in multi-level nested `UNION` queries might become ineffective [#49986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `LIMIT` in multi-level nested `UNION` queries might become ineffective [#49986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```
```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `LIMIT` in multi-level nested `UNION` queries might become ineffective [#49986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```
```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `LIMIT` in multi-level nested `UNION` queries might become ineffective  [#49874](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49874) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

    * `JSON_UNQUOTE()`
    * `JSON_ARRAY()`
    * `JSON_DEPTH()`
    * `JSON_VALID()`
    * `JSON_KEYS()`
    * `JSON_CONTAINS_PATH()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Improve the performance of creating tables by 10 times (experimental) [#49752](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49752) @[gmhdbjd](https://github.com/gmhdbjd) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1408-->

    In previous versions, when migrating tens of thousands of tables from the upstream database to TiDB, it is time-consuming and inefficient for TiDB to create these tables. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB introduces a new TiDB DDL V2 architecture. You can enable it by configuring the system variable [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760). Compared with previous versions, the new version of the DDL improves the performance of creating batch tables by 10 times, and significantly reduces time for creating tables.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-v2.md).

> * The optimizer enhances support for multi-valued indexes [#47759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47759) [#46539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46539) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1405/1584-->
> 
>     Starting from v6.6.0, TiDB introduced [multi-value indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes) to improve query performance for JSON data types. In v7.6.0, the optimizer enhances its support for multi-valued indexes and can correctly identify and utilize them to optimize queries in complex scenarios.
> 
>     * Statistics on multi-valued indexes are collected and applied by the optimizer for estimation. When a SQL statement might select multiple multi-valued indexes, the optimizer can identify the index with lower cost.
>     * When there are multiple `member of` conditions connected by `OR`, the optimizer is able to match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine multiple paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This allows more efficient condition filtering and data querying.
> 
>   For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes).
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

| TiKV | [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan.min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) | Modified   | Starting with TiDB v7.6.0, the default value for new clusters is `32KB`. For existing clusters upgrading to v7.6.0, the default value `1KB` remains unchanged. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |
| TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | Configures the addresses of the PD Servers. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |
| TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the I/O block size for sorting local files in the physical import (`backend='local'`). The default value is `16KiB`. When the disk IOPS is a bottleneck, you can increase this value to improve performance. |

> | TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`gc.num-threads`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#num-threads-new-in-v760) | Newly added | When `enable-compaction-filter` is set to `false`,  this parameter controls the number of GC threads. The default value is `1`. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |
```

| [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the [Active PD Follower](/tune-region-performance.md#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service) feature (experimental). When the value is `OFF`, TiDB only obtains Region information from the PD leader. When the value is `ON`, TiDB evenly distributes requests for Region information to all PD servers, and PD followers can also handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | The default value is "". The default supported TLS versions of TiDB are changed from `TLS1.1` or higher to `TLS1.2` or higher. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`tls-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#tls-version) | Modified | The default value is "". The default supported TLS versions of TiDB are changed from `TLS1.1` or higher to `TLS1.2` or higher. |
| TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | Configures the addresses of the PD Servers. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |
```

| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiKV | [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Modified | The algorithm used for compressing values in Titan, which takes value as the unit. Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default compression algorithm is `zstd`. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |
| TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | Configures the addresses of the PD Servers. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |

> | TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the local sorting file I/O lock size in the physical import (`backend='local'`). You can increase this value when IOPS  is a bottleneck. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the local sorting file I/O lock size in the physical import (`backend='local'`). You can increase this value when IOPS is a bottleneck. |
```

| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Limits the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction. The default value is `0.1`. |

> | TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |
| TiFlash | [`logger.level`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file) | Modified | Changes the default value from `"debug"` to `"INFO"` to reduce the cost of logging. |
```

> | TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | Configures the addresses of the PD Servers. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

    - 改进了 TiDB 处理部分类型转换的实现，修复一些相关问题 [#47945](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47945) [#47864](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47864) [#47829](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47829) [#47816](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47816) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 在获取 schema 版本时，默认使用 kv timeout 特性进行读取，缓解 meta region leader 读取慢对于 schema 版本更新影响 [#48125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/48125) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

+ TiKV

    <!--tw@ran-huang 4 条-->
    - Add an API endpoint `/async_tasks` for querying asynchronous tasks [#15759](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15759) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - Add priority labels to gRPC monitoring to display resource group data of different priorities @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Support dynamically adjusting the value of `readpool.unified.max-tasks-per-worker`, which can calculate the number of running tasks separately based on priority [#16026](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16026) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

>     -  Support dynamically adjusting the count of GC threads, with a default value of 1 [#16101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16101) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Support dynamically adjusting the number of GC threads, with a default value of `1` [#16101](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16101) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
```

+ PD

    <!--tw@ran-huang 1 条-->
    - Improve the availability of PD TSO during disk jitter [#7377](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7377) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ TiFlash

    <!--tw@ran-huang 4 条-->
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Improvements> TiFlash - Reduce the impact of disk performance jitter on read latency [#8583](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8583) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Reduce the impact of background GC tasks on read and write task latency [#8650](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8650) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Support merging identical data reading operations in a storage-compute separation architecture to improve data scanning performance under high concurrency [#6834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6834) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

>     - To reduce the cost of logging, the default value of the TiFlash configuration item `logger.level` has been changed from `"debug"` to `"info"` [#8563](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8563) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - To reduce the cost of logging, the default value of the TiFlash configuration item `logger.level` has been changed from `"debug"` to `"INFO"` [#8563](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8563) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

>     - To reduce the cost of logging, the default value of the TiFlash configuration item `logger.level` has been changed from `"debug"` to `"INFO"` [#8563](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8563) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        - Support configuring the `block-size` parameter to control the I/O block size for sorting local files to improve performance [#45037](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45037) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the issue that TiDB panics and reports an error `invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference` [#42739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42739) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the TiDB node panic issue that occurs when DDL `jobID` is restored to 0 [#46296](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46296) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Fix the issue that the same query plan has different `PLAN_DIGEST` values in some cases [#47634](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47634) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)
    - Fix the issue that executing `UNION ALL` with the DUAL table as the first subnode might cause an error [#48755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48755) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Fix the issue that queries containing CTEs report `runtime error: index out of range [32] with length 32` when `tidb_max_chunk_size` is set to a small value [#48808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48808) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that queries containing common table expressions (CTEs) report `runtime error: index out of range [32] with length 32` when `tidb_max_chunk_size` is set to a small value [#48808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48808) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

    - Fix the issue that the result of `COUNT(INT)` calculated by MPP might be incorrect [#48643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48643) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that executing `ALTER TABLE ... LAST PARTITION` fails when the partition column type is `DATETIME` [#48814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48814) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that using the `_` wildcard in `LIKE` when the data contains trailing spaces can result in incorrect query results [#48983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48983) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that high CPU usage of TiDB occurs due to long-term memory pressure caused by `tidb_server_memory_limit` [#48741](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48741) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - Fix the issue that the query result is incorrect when an `ENUM` type column is used as the join key [#48991](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48991) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Fix the issue that queries containing common table expressions (CTEs) unexpectedly get stuck when the memory limit is exceeded [#49096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49096) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that queries containing CTEs unexpectedly get stuck when the memory limit is exceeded [#49096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49096) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - Fix the issue that the optimizer incorrectly converts TiFlash selection path to the DUAL table in specific scenarios [#49285](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49285) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that `UPDATE` or `DELETE` statements containing `WITH RECURSIVE` CTEs might produce incorrect results [#48969](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48969) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that a query containing the IndexHashJoin operator gets stuck when memory exceeds `tidb_mem_quota_query` [#49033](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49033) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - Fix the issue that in non-strict mode (`sql_mode = ''`), truncation during executing `INSERT` still reports an error [#49369](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49369) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that CTE queries might report an error `type assertion for CTEStorageMap failed` during the retry process [#46522](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46522) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

>     - Fix the issue that `LIMIT` and `OPRDERBY` might be invalid in nested `UNION` queries [#49377](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49377) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `LIMIT` and `ORDER BY` might be invalid in nested `UNION` queries [#49377](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49377) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiDB might select the wrong partition when querying Hash partitioned tables [#50044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50044) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the connection error that occurs when you use MariaDB Connector/J with compression enabled [#49845](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49845) @[onlyacat](https://github.com/onlyacat)

+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue that the damaged SST files might spread to other TiKV nodes and cause TiKV to panic [#15986](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15986) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue that Online Unsafe Recovery cannot handle merge abort [#15580](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15580) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
    - Fix the issue that the joint state of DR Auto-Sync might time out when scaling out [#15817](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15817) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue that `blob-run-mode` in Titan cannot be updated online [#15978](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15978) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

>     - Fix the issue that resolved-ts might be blocked for 2 hours [#39130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39130) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
>     - Fix the issue that Resolved TS might be blocked for two hours [#15520](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15520) [#39130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39130) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that Resolved TS might be blocked for two hours [#11847](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11847) [#15520](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15520) [#39130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39130) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

    - Fix the issue that Flashback might get stuck when encountering `notLeader` or `regionNotFound` [#15712](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15712) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that if TiKV runs extremely slowly, it might panic after Region merge [#16111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16111) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot read in-memory pessimistic locks when GC scans expired locks [#15066](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15066) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Fix the issue that the blob file size in Titan monitoring is incorrect [#15971](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15971) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue that replicating large tables using TiCDC might cause TiKV to OOM  [#16035](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16035) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>     - Fix the issue that resolve ts might be blocked for 2 hours [#11847](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11847) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - 修复Titan监控中不正确的Blob文件大小，并修改部分参数的默认值------GC线程数默认改为1，压缩算法默认调整为ZSTD。 [#15971](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15971) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - 修复TiCDC在同步大表时可能导致TiKV OOM的问题。[#16035](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16035) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - 修复resolve ts可能被阻塞2个小时的问题。 [#11847](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11847) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - 修复日志备份任务内存泄露的问题。修复日志备份任务开始但可能不能真正工作的问题。 [#16070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16070) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - 修复在处理decimal算术乘法截断的错误。 [#16268](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16268) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - 修复`cast_duration_as_time`可能返回错误结果的错误. [#16211](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16211) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - 修复巴西和埃及时区转换的错误。 [#16220](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16220) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - 修复gRPC threads可能在检查`is_shutdown`时出现的panic的错误。 [#16236](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16236) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)

    + PD

    <!--tw@ran-huang 1 条-->

>     - Fix the issue that the etcd health check in PD does not remove expired addresses [#7226](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7226) @[iosmanthus](https://github.com/iosmanthus)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the ETCD health check in PD does not remove expired addresses [#7226](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7226) @[iosmanthus](https://github.com/iosmanthus)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that data of TiFlash replicas would still be garbage collected after executing `FLASHBACK DATABASE` [#8450](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8450) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that the memory usage increases significantly due to slow queries [#8564](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8564) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Fix the issue that some TiFlash replica data cannot be recovered through `RECOVER TABLE` or `FLASHBACK TABLE` in scenarios with frequent execution of `CREATE TABLE` and `DROP TABLE` [#1664](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/1664) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that query results are incorrect when querying with filtering conditions like `ColumnRef in (Literal, Func...)` [#8631](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8631) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

>     - 修复在 TiDB 执行并发 DDL 遇到冲突后 TiFlash panic 的问题 Fix the TiFlash panic issue when TiFlash encounters conflicts during concurrent DDL execution [#8578](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8578) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiFlash panic issue when TiFlash encounters conflicts during concurrent DDL execution [#8578](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8578) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might not be able to select the GC owner of object storage data under the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#8519](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8519) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

>     - Fix the bug that the `lowerUTF8` and `upperUTF8` functions do not allow characters in different cases to occupy different bytes [#8484](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8484) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `lowerUTF8` and `upperUTF8` functions do not allow characters in different cases to occupy different bytes [#8484](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8484) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash incorrectly handles enum when the enum value is 0 [#8311](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8311) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

>     - Fix the incompatibility issue in the `inet_ntoa()` expression [#8211](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8211) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the incompatibility issue in the `INET_NTOA()` expression [#8211](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8211) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash incorrectly handles enum when the enum value is 0 [#8311](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8311) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash incorrectly handles `ENUM` when the `ENUM` value is 0 [#8311](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8311) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
```

    - Fix the potential OOM issue that might occur when scanning multiple partitioned tables during stream read [#8505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8505) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

>     - Avoid printing excessive info logs for successfully executed short queries [#8592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8592) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that short queries executed successfully print excessive info logs [#8592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8592) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the potential data race issue during `kv-client` initialization [#10095](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10095) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly closes the connection with TiKV in certain special scenarios [#10239](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10239) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - (dup): release-6.5.6.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that TiCDC server might panic when executing lossy DDL statements in upstream [#9739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9739) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that `checkpoint-ts` might get stuck when TiCDC replicates data to downstream MySQL [#10334](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10334) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        <!--tw@ran-huang 3 条-->

>         - Fix the issue that the "event type truncate not valid" is returned after upgrading DM [#10282](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10282) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM encounters "event type truncate not valid" error that causes the upgrade to fail [#10282](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10282) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

        - Fix the performance degradation issue when replicating data in GTID mode [#9676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9676) @[feran-morgan-pingcap](https://github.com/feran-morgan-pingcap)

>         - Fix the issue of the migration task error when the downstream table structure contains `shard_row_id_bits` [#10308](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10308) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that a migration task error occurs when the downstream table structure contains `shard_row_id_bits` [#10308](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10308) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

| [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760)       |    Newly added       |    Sets the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation. The default value is `4`.  | 
| [`tidb_ddl_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_version-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added  | Controls whether to enable [TiDB DDL V2](/ddl-v2.md). Set the value to `2` to enable it and `1` to disable it. The default value is `1`. When TiDB DDL V2 is enabled, DDL statements will be executed using TiDB DDL V2. The execution speed of DDL statements for creating tables is increased by 10 times compared with TiDB DDL V1. |
| [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760)  |  Newly added   | Controls whether to support creating `Global indexes` for partitioned tables. The default value is `OFF`. `Global index` is currently in the development stage. **It is not recommended to modify the value of this system variable**. |

> | [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls the idle timeout for transactions in a user session. When a user session is in a transactional state and remains idle for a duration exceeding the value of this variable, TiDB will terminate the session. The default value `0` means unlimited. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls the idle timeout for transactions in a user session. When a user session is in a transactional state and remains idle for a duration exceeding the value of this variable, TiDB will terminate the session. The default value `0` means unlimited. |
| [`tidb_opt_enable_fuzzy_binding`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_fuzzy_binding-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the cross-database binding feature. The default value `OFF` means cross-database binding is disabled by default. |
```

| [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Dynamically modifies the TiDB configuration item [`performance.txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-new-in-v50). It limits the size of a single row of data in TiDB. The default value of this variable is `0`, which means that TiDB uses the value of the configuration item `txn-entry-size-limit` by default. When this variable is set to a non-zero value, `txn-entry-size-limit` is also set to the same value. |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the [Active PD Follower](/tune-region-performance.md#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service) feature (experimental). When the value is `OFF`, TiDB only obtains Region information from the PD leader. When the value is `ON`, TiDB evenly distributes requests for Region information to all PD servers, and PD followers can also handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader. |

```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiKV | [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Modified | The algorithm used for compressing values in Titan, which takes value as the unit. Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default compression algorithm is `zstd`. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |
| TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | Configures the addresses of the PD Servers. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |

> | TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the local sorting file I/O lock size in the physical import (`backend='local'`). You can increase this value when IOPS is a bottleneck. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the local sorting file I/O lock size in the physical import (`backend='local'`). The default value is `16KiB`. You can increase this value when IOPS is a bottleneck. |
```

| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-times-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Sets the specific times that TiKV initiates periodic full compaction. The default value `[]` means periodic full compaction is disabled by default. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#periodic-full-compact-start-max-cpu-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Limits the maximum CPU usage rate for TiKV periodic full compaction. The default value is `0.1`. |

> | TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`zstd-dict-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#zstd-dict-size) |  Newly added | Specifies the `zstd` dictionary compression size. The default value is `"0KB"`, which means to disable the `zstd` dictionary compression. |
| BR | `--granularity` | Newly added | Uses the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm (experimental) by specifying `--granularity="coarse-grained"`. This accelerates restore speed in large-scale Region scenarios. |
| BR | `--tikv-max-restore-concurrency` | Newly added | Controls the concurrency of download tasks for each TiKV node when using the coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm. |
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | [`encoding-worker-num`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of encoding and decoding workers in the redo module. The default value is 16. |
| TiCDC | [`flush-worker-num`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of flushing workers in the redo module. The default value is 8. |
| TiCDC | [`compression`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the behavior to compress redo log files. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.cloud-storage-config`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Sets the automatic cleanup of historical data when replicating data to object storage. |

```

### System tables

- Add a new system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEYWORDS`](/information-schema/information-schema-keywords.md) to display the information of all keywords supported by TiDB.
- In the system table [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md), add the following fields related to Resource Control:
    - `Resource_group`: the resource group that the statement is bound to.
    - `Request_unit_read`: the total read RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Request_unit_write`: the total write RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Time_queued_by_rc`: the total time that the statement waits for available resources.

## Offline package changes

Starting from v7.6.0, the `TiDB-community-server` [binary-package](/binary-package.md) now includes `tiproxy-{version}-linux-{arch}.tar.gz`, which is the installation package for the proxy component [TiProxy](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

## Deprecated features

* Support for the TLSv1.0 and TLSv1.1 protocols is deprecated in TiDB v7.6.0 and will be removed in v8.0.0. Please upgrade to TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - TiDB supports building binary files that meet the requirements of FIPS [#47948](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47948) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Optimize the TiDB implementation when handling some type conversions and fix related issues [#47945](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47945) [#47864](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47864) [#47829](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47829) [#47816](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47816) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - When obtaining the schema version, TiDB uses the kv timeout feature to read by default, reducing the impact of slow meta Region leader reads on schema version updates [#48125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/48125) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

+ TiKV

    <!--tw@ran-huang 4 条-->
    - Add an API endpoint `/async_tasks` for querying asynchronous tasks [#15759](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15759) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>     - Add priority labels to gRPC monitoring to display resource group data of different priorities @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Add priority labels to gRPC monitoring to display resource group data of different priorities [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
```

+ PD

    <!--tw@ran-huang 1 条-->
    - Improve the availability of PD TSO during disk jitter [#7377](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7377) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ TiFlash

    <!--tw@ran-huang 4 条-->
    - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Improvements> TiFlash - Reduce the impact of disk performance jitter on read latency [#8583](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8583) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Reduce the impact of background GC tasks on read and write task latency [#8650](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8650) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Support merging identical data reading operations in a storage-compute separation architecture to improve data scanning performance under high concurrency [#6834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6834) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - To reduce the cost of logging, the default value of the TiFlash configuration item `logger.level` has been changed from `"debug"` to `"info"` [#8563](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8563) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

>     - Optimize the execution performance of `SEMIJOIN` and `LEFT OUTER SEMIJOIN` when only JOIN KEY equality conditions are included in `JOIN ON` [#47424](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47424) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the execution performance of `SEMI JOIN` and `LEFT OUTER SEMIJOIN` when only JOIN KEY equality conditions are included in `JOIN ON` [#47424](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47424) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiDB server might panic during graceful shutdown [#36793](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36793) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
    - Fix the issue that `ADMIN RECOVER INDEX` reports `ERROR 1105` when processing a table containing `CommonHandle` [#47687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47687) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that specifying placement rules when executing `ALTER TABLE t PARTITION BY` reports the error `ERROR 8239` [#48630](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48630) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that the `START_TIME` column type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_INFO` is not valid [#45221](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45221) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue that invalid `EXTRA` column type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS` leads to the error `Data Too Long, field len 30, data len 45` [#42030](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42030) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Fix the issue that `IN (...) ` causes different plan digests in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STATEMENTS_SUMMARY` [#33559](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33559) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `IN (...)` causes different plan digests in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STATEMENTS_SUMMARY` [#33559](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33559) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)
```

    - Fix the issue that adding index fails for DDL statements due to out of memory [#47862](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47862) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - Fix the issue that upgrading the cluster during executing `ADD INDEX` might cause the data to be inconsistent with the indexes [#46306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46306) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - Fix the issue that executing `ADMIN CHECK` after updating the `tidb_mem_quota_query` system variable returns `ERROR 8175` [#49258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49258) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that when `ALTER TABLE` modifies the type of a column referenced by a foreign key, the change in `DECIMAL` accuracy is not reported as an error [#49836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49836) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)
    - Fix the issue that when `ALTER TABLE` modifies the type of a column referenced by a foreign key, the change in `INTEGER` length is reported as an error by mistake [#47702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47702) @[yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)

>     - Fix the issue that in some scenarios the expression index does not find that the divisor is 0 [#50053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50053) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that in some scenarios the expression index does not detect that the divisor is 0 [#50053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50053) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

    <!--tw@qiancai 以下 26 条-->

>     - Mitigate the issue that TiDB nodes might encounter OOM when dealing with a large number of tables [#50077](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50077) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Mitigate the issue that TiDB nodes might encounter OOM errors when dealing with a large number of tables [#50077](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50077) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```

    - Fix the issue that DDL gets stuck in the running state during cluster rolling restart [#50073](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50073) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that results might be incorrect when accessing global indexes of partitioned tables using `PointGet` or `BatchPointGet` operators [#47539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47539) @[L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)

>     - Fix the issue that MPP plans might not be selected when indexes on generated columns are set to be visible [#47766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47766) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that MPP plans might not be selected when indexes on generated columns are set as visible [#47766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47766) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    The new coarse-grained Region scatter algorithm is experimental. To use it, you can configure the `--granularity="coarse-grained"` parameter in the `br` command. You can also control the concurrency of download tasks on each TiKV node by setting the `--tikv-max-restore-concurrency` parameter. For example:

    ```bash
    br restore full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://${Bucket}/${Folder}" \
    --s3.region "${region}" \
    --granularity "coarse-grained" \
    --tikv-max-restore-concurrency 128 \
    --send-credentials-to-tikv=true \
    --log-file restorefull.log
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots).

> * The Titan engine is enabled by default [#16245] (https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16245) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

Author: ```suggestion
* The Titan engine is enabled by default [#16245](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16245) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
```

    This configuration change remains compatible with earlier versions. For existing TiDB clusters, when upgrading to TiDB v7.6.0 or a later version, the Titan engine is disabled by default. You have the flexibility to manually enable or disable the Titan engine based on your specific requirements.

    For more information, see [documentation](/storage-engine/titan-overview.md).

* Support pushing down the following string functions to TiKV [#48170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48170) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1607-->

    * `LOWER()`
    * `UPPER()`

>     For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).
```

* Support pushing down the following JSON functions to TiFlash [#48350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48350) [#48986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48986) [#48994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48994) [#49345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49345) [#49392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49392) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@qiancai** <!--1608-->

    * `JSON_UNQUOTE()`
    * `JSON_ARRAY()`
    * `JSON_DEPTH()`
    * `JSON_VALID()`
    * `JSON_KEYS()`
    * `JSON_CONTAINS_PATH()`

>     For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).
```

* The optimizer enhances support for multi-valued indexes [#47759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47759) [#46539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46539) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1405/1584-->

    Starting from v6.6.0, TiDB introduced [multi-value indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes) to improve query performance for JSON data types. In v7.6.0, the optimizer enhances its support for multi-valued indexes and can correctly identify and utilize them to optimize queries in complex scenarios.

    * Statistics on multi-valued indexes are collected and applied by the optimizer for estimation. When a SQL statement might select multiple multi-valued indexes, the optimizer can identify the index with lower cost.
    * When there are multiple `member of` conditions connected by `OR`, the optimizer is able to match an effective index partial path for each DNF item (a `member of` condition) and combine multiple paths using Union to form an `Index Merge`. This allows more efficient condition filtering and data querying.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes).

Author: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#multi-valued-indexes).
```

    * [Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md): add the resource group name, RU consumption, and time for waiting for resources.
    * In the system variable [`tidb_last_query_info`](/system-variables.md#tidb_last_query_info-new-in-v4014), add a new entry `ru_consumption` to indicate the consumed [RU](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) by SQL statements. You can use this variable to get the resource consumption of the last statement in the session.
    * Add database metrics based on resource groups: QPS/TPS, execution time (P999/P99/P95), number of failures, number of connections.
    * Add the system table [`request_unit_by_group`](/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-resource-control) to record the history records of daily consumed resource units (RUs) of all resource groups.

>     For more information, see [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md), [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md), and [Key Monitoring Metrics of Resource Control](/grafana-resource-control-dashboard.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md), [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md), and [Key Monitoring Metrics of Resource Control](/grafana-resource-control-dashboard.md).
```

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size-new-in-v640) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `128` after further tests.  |

> | [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650 | Modified  | In a large-scale cluster, the concurrency of `scan` operations can be adjusted higher to meet the needs of `ANALYZE`. Therefore, change the maximum value from `256` to `4294967295`.  |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified  | In a large-scale cluster, the concurrency of `scan` operations can be adjusted higher to meet the needs of `ANALYZE`. Therefore, change the maximum value from `256` to `4294967295`.  |
```

    - `Resource_group`: the resource group that the statement is bound to.
    - `Request_unit_read`: the total read RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Request_unit_write`: the total write RUs consumed by the statement.
    - `Time_queued_by_rc`: the total time that the statement waits for available resources.

## Offline package changes

Starting from v7.6.0, the `TiDB-community-server` [binary-package](/binary-package.md) now includes `tiproxy-{version}-linux-{arch}.tar.gz`, which is the installation package for the proxy component [TiProxy](tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

## Deprecated features

* The [baseline evolution](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) feature for execution plans will be deprecated in TiDB v8.0.0. The equivalent functionality will be redesigned in the subsequent versions.
* The [`tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_disable_txn_auto_retry) system variable will be deprecated in TiDB v8.0.0. After that, TiDB will no longer support automatic retries of optimistic transactions.

> * 废弃功能 2
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

        - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/ticdc-canal-json#compatibility-with-the-official-canal) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM) <!--tw@ran-huang 1 条-->

        - Add configurations for full data physical import to DM OpenAPI [#10193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10193) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@hfxsd 2 条-->

        - Support configuring multiple PD addresses to enhance stability [#49515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49515) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
        - Support configuring the `block-size` parameter to control the size of TiDB Lightning's internal I/O operations to improve performance [#45037](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45037) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)

>     + TiUP
> 
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        <!--tw@ran-huang 3 条-->
        - Fix the issue that DM encounters "event type truncate not valid" error that causes the upgrade to fail [#10282](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10282) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - Fix the performance degradation issue when replicating data in GTID mode [#9676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9676) @[feran-morgan-pingcap](https://github.com/feran-morgan-pingcap)
        - Fix the issue that a migration task error occurs when the downstream table structure contains `shard_row_id_bits` [#10308](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10308) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiUP

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

> ## Contributors

Author: ```suggestion
## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

- [0o001](https://github.com/0o001)(First-time contributor)
- [bagechengzi](https://github.com/bagechengzi)(First-time contributor)
- [feran-morgan-pingcap](https://github.com/feran-morgan-pingcap)(First-time contributor)
- [highpon](https://github.com/highpon)
- [jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
- [L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)
- [lkshminarayanan](https://github.com/lkshminarayanan)(First-time contributor)
- [lyang24](https://github.com/lyang24)(First-time contributor)
- [mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
- [morgo](https://github.com/morgo)
- [nkg-](https://github.com/nkg-)(First-time contributor)
- [onlyacat](https://github.com/onlyacat)
- [shawn0915](https://github.com/shawn0915)
- [Smityz](https://github.com/Smityz)
- [szpnygo](https://github.com/szpnygo)(First-time contributor)
- [ub-3](https://github.com/ub-3)(First-time contributor)
- [xiaoyawei](https://github.com/xiaoyawei)(First-time contributor)
- [yorkhellen](https://github.com/yorkhellen)
- [yoshikipom](https://github.com/yoshikipom)(First-time contributor)
- [Zheaoli](https://github.com/Zheaoli)
```

    Before v7.6.0, the size of a single row record in a transaction is limited by the TiDB configuration item [`txn-entry-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-entry-size-limit-new-in-v50). If the size limit is exceeded, TiDB returns the `entry too large` error. In this case, you need to manually modify the TiDB configuration file and restart TiDB to make the modification take effect. To reduce your management overhead, TiDB v7.6.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_txn_entry_size_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760), which supports dynamically modifying the value of the `txn-entry-size-limit` configuration item. The default value of this variable is `0`, which means that TiDB uses the value of the configuration item `txn-entry-size-limit` by default. When this variable is set to a non-zero value, TiDB limits the size of a row record in transactions to the value of this variable. This improvement enhances the flexibility for you to adjust system configurations without restarting TiDB.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_entry_size_limit-new-in-v760).

> * The global sort feature becomes generally available (GA), improving the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1580/1579-->
> 
>     Prior to v7.4.0, when executing tasks such as `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` using the [Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF)](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md), due to limited local storage space in TiDB, only a portion of the data could be sorted locally before importing it into TiKV. The data imported into TiKV had a significant overlap range and required additional resources for processing, which reduced the performance and stability of TiKV.
> 
>     With the introduction of the global sort feature in v7.4.0, data can be temporarily stored in external storage (such as S3) for global sorting before being imported into TiKV. This improvement reduces resource consumption of TiKV and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations such as `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`. This feature becomes GA in v7.6.0.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed).

* TiCDC adds support for three-character delimiters with CSV output protocol [#9969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9969) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1653-->

    Starting from v7.6.0, you can specify the CSV output protocol delimiters as 1 to 3 characters long. With this change, you can configure TiCDC to generate file output using two character delimiters (such as `||` or `$^`) or three character delimiters (such as `|@|`) to separate fields in the output.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-csv.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.5.0 to the current version (v7.6.0). If you are upgrading from v7.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size-new-in-v640) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `128` after further tests.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size-new-in-v640) | Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `128` after further tests.  |
| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650 | Modified  | Changes the maximum value from `256` to `4294967295` after further tests.  |
```

---
title: TiDB 7.6.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.6.0.
---

# TiDB 7.6.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 202x

TiDB version: 7.6.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.6.0#version-list)

7.6.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance<br></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
```

    <td>With the implementation of the new DDL architecture in v7.6.0, the performance of batch table creation has witnessed a remarkable improvement, up to 10 times faster. This substantial enhancement drastically reduces the time needed for creating numerous tables. This acceleration is particularly noteworthy in SaaS scenarios, where the prevalence of high volumes of tables, ranging from tens to hundreds of thousands, is a common challenge.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/tune-region-performance#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service">Use Active PD Followers to scale PD's Region information query service, ultimately scaling the cluster (experimental)</a>  {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>TiDB v7.6.0 introduces an experimental feature "Active PD Follower", which allows PD followers to provide Region information query services. This feature improves the capability of the PD cluster to handle GetRegion and ScanRegions requests in clusters with a large number of TiDB nodes and Regions, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="2">Reliability and Availability<br></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="2">Reliability and Availability</td>
```

| [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the [Active PD Follower](/tune-region-performance.md#use-the-active-pd-follower-feature-to-enhance-the-scalability-of-pds-region-information-query-service) feature (experimental). When the value is `OFF`, TiDB only obtains Region information from the PD leader. When the value is `ON`, TiDB evenly distributes requests for Region information to all PD servers, and PD followers can also handle Region requests, thereby reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiKV | [`blob-file-compression`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#blob-file-compression) | Modified | The algorithm used for compressing values in Titan, which takes value as the unit. Starting from TiDB v7.6.0, the default compression algorithm is `zstd`. |

> | TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.defaultcf.titan.min-blob-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#min-blob-size) | Modified   | Starting with TiDB v7.6.0, the default value for new clusters is `32KB`. For existing clusters upgrading to v7.6.0, the default value `1KB` remains unchanged. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.titan.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enabled) | Modified  |  Enables or disables Titan. For v7.5.0 and earlier versions, the default value is `false`. Starting from v7.6.0, the default value is `true` for only new clusters. Existing clusters upgraded to v7.6.0 or later versions will retain the original configuration. |
```

Reviewer 3: @benmaoer PTAL

| TiDB Lightning| [`tidb.pd-addr`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Modified  | Configures the addresses of the PD Servers. Starting from v7.6.0, TiDB supports setting multiple PD addresses. |

> | TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the I/O block size for the local sorting file in the physical import (`backend='local'`). The default value is `16KiB`. You can increase this value when IOPS is a bottleneck. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | [`block-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) | Newly added | Controls the I/O block size for the local file sorting in the physical import (`backend='local'`). The default value is `16KiB`. You can increase this value when IOPS is a bottleneck. |
```

        - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Improve the performance of TiCDC replicating data to object storage by increasing parallelism [#10098](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10098) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-7.1.3.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/ticdc-canal-json#compatibility-with-the-official-canal) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        <!--tw@ran-huang 1 条-->
        - Add configurations for full data physical import to DM OpenAPI [#10193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10193) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

    + TiDB Lightning

        <!--tw@hfxsd 2 条-->
        - Support configuring multiple PD addresses to enhance stability [#49515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49515) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)

>         - Support configuring the `block-size` parameter to control the size of TiDB Lightning's internal I/O operations to improve performance [#45037](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45037) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Support configuring the `block-size` parameter to control the I/O block size for the local sorting file to improve performance [#45037](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45037) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
```

    - Support multiple accelerated `ADD INDEX` DDL tasks to be queued for execution, instead of falling back to normal `ADD INDEX` tasks [#47758](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47758) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Improve the compatibility of `ALTER TABLE ... ROW_FORMAT` [#48754](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48754) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Modify the `CANCEL IMPORT JOB` statement to a synchronous statement [#48736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48736) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Optimize the speed of adding indexes to empty tables [#49682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49682) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - When the columns of a correlated subquery are not referenced by the upper-level operator, the correlated subquery can be eliminated directly [#45822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45822) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)
    - `EXCHANGE PARTITION` operations now trigger maintenance updates of statistics information [#47354](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47354) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>     - TiDB supports building binary files that meet the requirements of FIPS [#47948](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47948) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Author: ```suggestion
    - TiDB supports building binary files that meet the requirements of Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) [#47948](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47948) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

    - Optimize the TiDB implementation when handling some type conversions and fix related issues [#47945](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47945) [#47864](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47864) [#47829](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47829) [#47816](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47816) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - When obtaining the schema version, TiDB uses the kv timeout feature to read by default, reducing the impact of slow meta Region leader reads on schema version updates [#48125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/48125) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Author: ```suggestion
    - When obtaining the schema version, TiDB uses the KV timeout feature to read by default, reducing the impact of slow meta Region leader reads on schema version updates [#48125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/48125) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

    - Fix the issue that replicating large tables using TiCDC might cause TiKV to OOM  [#16035](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16035) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue that resolve ts might be blocked for 2 hours [#11847](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11847) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue that the log backup task might encounter memory leak and fail to run properly after startup [#16070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16070) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB and TiKV might produce inconsistent results when processing `DECIMAL` arithmetic multiplication truncation [#16268](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16268) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Fix the issue that `cast_duration_as_time` might return incorrect results [#16211](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16211) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV converts the time zone incorrectly for Brazil and Egypt [#16220](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16220) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when gRPC threads is checking `is_shutdown` [#16236](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16236) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when gRPC threads are checking `is_shutdown` [#16236](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16236) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that `checkpoint-ts` might get stuck when TiCDC replicates data to downstream MySQL [#10334](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10334) @[zhangjinpeng1987](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng1987)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        <!--tw@ran-huang 3 条-->
        - Fix the issue that DM encounters "event type truncate not valid" error that causes the upgrade to fail [#10282](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10282) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - Fix the performance degradation issue when replicating data in GTID mode [#9676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9676) @[feran-morgan-pingcap](https://github.com/feran-morgan-pingcap)
        - Fix the issue that a migration task error occurs when the downstream table structure contains `shard_row_id_bits` [#10308](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10308) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

>     + TiDB Lightning
> 
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
> 
>     + TiUP
> 
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
